# C: MO - 'Chainsaw' Patrol Mission Pattern
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-c-IH_4sI-A
Video ID: -c-IH_4sI-A

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at one of the
latest additions to our beta version of
Command Modern Operations, and that is
the chainsaw patrol method. Now, what is
the chainsaw patrol method? Well, it
took me a little bit of digging and kind
of diving around, and I'm familiar with
it as an air warfare technique, but the
short version, if I borrow this lovely
Reddit post right here, is you're going
to design it so that you have aircraft
always going away from the carrier, and
you have aircraft that are always coming
back to do things like getting refueling
from the carrier. So, for a traditional
combat air patrol, basically you're
going to do a big old donut here,
keeping an eye in for things. The idea
with this one is we're going to extend
the range to go all the way out, get
some gas, go back out, get some gas,
kind of a thing like that. Basically, go
back and forth. Now, the interesting
thing is this is something we've been
able to do for a while. If you wanted to
do specific types of missions, you could
basically build a point here, a point
here, point here, point here, point
here, point here, and it would be quite
a bit of points to say the least. So,
what we're going to try to do is we're
going to try to recreate it using our
new features built into this particular
beta version. So, let's go ahead and
pause the party. A couple different
things I need to do. First thing is I
need to get an Awax cuz I know there's a
lot of trouble in this ocean out here.
And the least of our worries, of course,
is going to be submarines. I would know
cuz I didn't add any. But, let's go
ahead and add our handydandy Awax first.
We'll do that one immediately. One of
the things I'm going to do is I'm going
to set these to be a fixed bearing to
our little carrier battle group. The
reason I'm doing that is I want them to
follow the carrier as the carrier moves.
So, we'll call it awax spot. Keep it
nice and simple. Press my F11 key.
There's my Awax. I'm toss them right
there. Of course, you have to add the
mission first. Uh, Awax looking
around. Let's see. We'll set that to
support. Looks groovy. Go ahead and drop
that one down. Awesome. So, now at least
we have Awax support to kind of keep an
eye on things around us. Again, we're a
very, very tiny carrier battle group
here, but for the purposes of what we're
doing, this will work just fine. So, the
next thing we're going to do is we're
going to set up the chainsaw mission.
Now, I've done a bunch of different
reading on this and try to find like
what's kind of the optimum position and
angles and all that other stuff. And
again, the short version is it all
depends. If you have aircraft which are
very very heavily loaded with weapons or
the short range, I'm looking at UF35,
it's going to be a very challenging
activity to try to do. So, normally what
they talk about is going out to about
a,000 miles for their combat air patrol
here. Again, that would be something
like this line which is going to take us
right past Nova Scotia here into
basically middle of the North Atlantic.
As you can see, this is a very, very,
very long chainsaw arm here. It's so
long, as a matter of fact, that
depending on what aircraft we have,
we're probably going to have to stop for
gas about halfway up the arc, which
means we're never really going to get
there. That doesn't work very well for
us. So, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to have that. I'm going to go down
to about 500 miles here. So, I'm going
to go ahead and create my first
waypoint. That's going to be the top of
the chainsaw here. I'm going to go ahead
and grab myself another waypoint. If you
can't see, I'm doing 135° here at about
500 miles. Delightful. We'll go ahead
and dial that in. Now, these are going
to be my chainsaw waypoints. It doesn't
mean necessarily that I'm going to go
there and come right back. As a matter
of fact, when I fiddle with this quite a
bit, I've discovered that they tend to
kind of zigzag all over the place, which
isn't a bad thing, and you you'll see
exactly what I mean. So, let's go ahead
and set this to a rotating bearing on
our carrier battle group, which means
they're going to follow us around. And
everything's looking pretty awesome. So,
let's go ahead and press our control F11
here. We're going to go ahead and set
ourselves up with a mission, even with a
chainsaw. Good luck knowing what that's
from. Uh, it's just I you will know. But
anyway, let's go take a look. Now, we're
going to be doing a regular AW patrol
here. Patrol AW patrol active. Sounds
good to me. And I have F-14D Tomcats. Of
course, these hypothetical funds, but
too bad. So, I'm going to go toss them
in here. And one of the interesting
things we can do here is we can actually
grab these aircraft that are for
refueling purposes and add them directly
to the mission. Do not do that. Even
though it will work initially, when
these aircraft run low on fuel, what's
going to happen is they're going to
return to base, leaving these guys with
no options and they're going to fall
right out of the sky. Uh you will know
it the first five times you do it,
especially when you lose like, you know,
30 F-35s because they went swimming
because you didn't think about that.
Instead, what I would actually recommend
do is your refilling track should be
somewhere in the middle. And ideally,
what we would do is we try to design a
refilling track so it has some airto-air
cover. Now, normally what you would do
is, you know, if you do something like
this, like put your refilling track
right here, yeah, you're going to be
able to take advantage of the fact that
people can stop by the mission to get
some gas. But the reality is, unless you
put a mission around it to protect that
refueling track, it's going to get
attacked. So, keep in mind, I'm doing a
bad job of this. I'm just know, like I
said, just giving you an idea of some of
the complexity of these missions. There
we go. So, this is going to be my
refueling point right there. I'm going
to set that to be a rotating reference
point as well. I want to move with the
carrier group. Uh, if I was a smarter
person, I'd rename this. Control-r
refueling point. That looks good to me.
I like that. I'm going to press Ctrl+
F11. We're going to go ahead and set
this to a regular old boss support
mission. Looks good. Looks good. Press
Okie do. Let's grab our refueling
aircraft and toss them in there. I've
grabbed both varieties. Of course,
modern refueling would be like an MQ25
or something like that, but uh I should
probably add give this a name. Refuel
stuff. Very specific. All right.
Everything's good. Our chainsaw is good
to go. Our Awax looking around is good
looking around. No, it's not that song.
One of the things I do need to do though
is I need to tell them to actually turn
their radars on. Otherwise, our Awax is
going to be pretty darn pointless. And
again, the F35, if we were using that,
is a fabulous aircraft for like doing
that kind of work. But we're dealing
with F-14s here. So, we got to kind of
roll with it. All right, let's see what
happens. So, what's going to happen here
is we're going to have a lot of aircraft
launched off this deck in a very, very,
very short period of time. As a matter
of fact, I'll speed up time because this
is some really long distances we're
dealing with here. This is not normal.
Actually, for carriers, it probably is
normal. All right, let's go take a look
at all the shenanigans we just caused
here so you can get a feel for what's
going on. So, we have lactose number
two. Don't be intolerant or get no gas.
Actually, it's a radar. So, this guy, of
course, he's F-14 because reasons. And
there's the other one. And what you're
going to observe about these F-14s is
one of the groups of F-14s is going to
be proceeding to this point. And you're
going to notice a different group of
F-14s. Instead of going to this point,
they're going to chainsaw outwards, do a
power donut, and they're going to come
back in this direction. Now, the crazy
thing here is if I grab a flight brave
right here. I'll go ahead and speed up
time a little bit so you can kind of see
them in action. And you can see our
glorious uh limited view of these F-14s.
And again, he's going to turn. He's
going to start heading this way while
the other one starts setting up this
way. As a matter of fact, you can
actually see his desired point just by
clicking on it. Just like that. There
goes my K6Ds. The nice thing about
those, of course, is they'll help us out
a little bit as far as fuel goes. Let's
speed up time a little bit. Uhoh, we've
got something. You can see this one got
away from the ship and he's
automatically bringing himself over to
this point. Remember, the concept of the
chainsaw is to have always somebody
going out and always have somebody
coming back. So, we'll go and speed up
time a little bit. Looks like we're
having a little bit of a party here. And
there we go. F-14 is doing the F-14
thing. You can see this new group is
coming out. You can see they're stopping
to go get some gas. There they go.
Remember, I set up a nice little
refueling track there. Oh, we ran into
some trouble. They went for my
refuelers. I knew they go for my
refuelers. They always do. And of
course, that should take care of that
pretty efficiently. Nice. Everybody gets
their gas. They're going to continue on
their little mission. Oh, we got got
shenanigans. We got shenanigans. Nice.
You can see again there. Oh, there goes
that one going all the way down south.
You can see after they get gas, they're
doing this big long line. Now, if I was
a much much smarter and a less lazy
individual, I would have set the
refueling tracks on the main chainsaw
arms here. That's going to give us a
little bit better reach. But you can see
how they're creating that continuous
coverage back and forth. So, what I'll
do now is that we've obliterated most of
the opponents is you can see very
clearly how they're alternating between
those points and they're also
alternating directly between the carrier
itself. There they go. Oh. Oh, more
trouble. More trouble. More trouble. Ah,
we caused you to abort. Go
home. I don't know why Canada is
shooting at us today. It must have been
something we said. All right. Yep. See
how he's going out? They're going to do
their cap. They're going to turn around.
They go out. They turn around. They turn
out. Turn around. Just like that. And
that's where that chainsaw concept goes
through like you saw in that little
image that we saw a little bit earlier
on. And one of the fun things about
chainsaws, and I'll zoom out a little
bit here, we've got five hours to go on
our mission to give you an idea of how
good our continuous coverage is, is the
fact that we're always spending some
time running away and some time coming
back. If you time this well and you have
enough aircraft on the mission, the
great thing you got going on here, I
told you we run out of time, is the fact
that you always have somebody's covered.
Again, it's very difficult to get
between this at a welltimed period. Of
course, we got no points. Losses and
expenditures, we got 18 Seoy 35s. That
makes me feel pretty good. and a loss of
eight F14Ds. Now, one of the things you
should probably investigate here is if I
actually open this one up, how many of
these ran out of gas? That one ran out
of gas. That one ran out of gas. That
one ran out of gas. That one ran out of
gas. That one ran out of gas. That one
exploded. That one ran out of gas. So,
every single one of seven of her
casualties were fuel. One of her
casualty was due to air-to-air combat,
which just goes to show you how
challenging this can be. And again, one
of the things that differentiates this
between a regular mission like this is
that little zigzag it does between.
Enjoy.