# C: MO - Estimating and Setting Up Salvo Sizes
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5E-Kl2lq18k
Video ID: 5E-Kl2lq18k

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at salvo
control. Now, one of the interesting
problems that we always face is we're
here in the middle of the ocean. A bunch
of bogeies suddenly appear on our screen
and we're immediately get suspicious. We
call general alert. We send our crews to
the missiles. We start spooling up gyros
and doing calculations and seeing if
anybody's supposed to be here. So,
here's the problem. We come way out to
our targets here and we can see one
bogey. He's about 3600 ft or 36,000 ft.
400 knots. We have another bogey. Uh it
was about 36,000 ft, also 400 knots. We
have no knowledge as to the nature of
these two vehicles. Um if we were an SA5
and we had NCTR, we could pull it off.
We could also get out a telescope and
look. But the reality is we're not going
to know what these two targets are for
quite some time. Now, what we want to be
able to do is to dictate what altitude
to go ahead. Actually, not altitude,
what range to fire at. And we're also
interested in how many missiles we're
going to fire. So, I'm going to press
control shift F9. What that's going to
do is open up my doctrine and rules of
engagement. If you go all the way to the
right here, you're going to see weapon
release authorization, WRA. Now, if I
open that up and kind of scroll down a
little bit, I can see got my SA2s, and
it gives you the default weapons per
salvo information, as well as how many
shooters per salvo there are. Now, the
interesting thing is we've talked about
and MCONT and all that stuff before, but
one of the things we've never really
done is fiddled with the implications
tactically of some of this. So, right
now, if we have an unidentified target,
we fire two missiles. If we have
something uh we just know it's an
aircraft and we don't care about all
these categories here, we fire two
missiles. Otherwise, we fire two
missiles. Now, if you think about that,
uh does that make sense? Well, let's go
take a look at that SA2 for a second
here and get a feel for if that even is
logical. So, let's grab the SA2 2D and
its percent to hit is 30%. Now, if you
happen to have a calculator here real
quick, and I happen to because I have a
button that I keep pushing by accident.
So, before we even talk about chaff and
jamming, we have a 30% chance to hit. So
that would means if we wanted to fire
two missiles, that's going to give us a
half increase, which would give us a 45%
chance. So if we wanted to do it again,
we'll go ahead and 075. You'll see if
three missiles will give us a 52.5%
chance, assuming ideal scenario, to
actually strike the target. Now, this is
really important to us because this
means that if we're going to do any
damage at all, we need to be thinking
about how many of these missiles are
actually launching. By default, as you
probably observed, we're not firing one
of these things. We're firing a pair of
these things. Now, given the low
probability of hit, if it even went in a
straight line, this is actually not
optimum in the slightest. So, we're
actually going to go increase this up to
three. Now, the SA2 has three missile
control channels. SA2 rather. So, that
means we can only launch three. We can't
do more than that. Some modern systems
can shoot quite a few more. So, we're
going to say three. Now, the interesting
thing here is if you come down here to
guided weapons, guided weapons is all
limited to one as well, even though it's
such a tiny thing. But the reality is
you're never going to hit it. Same thing
with ballistic weapons. You're never
ever ever going to hit it. It's a waste
of your time. Now, the interesting thing
here is if we scoot over to automatic
firing range and open this little box
real quick, you'll notice it has no
escape zone, which is awesome. 50% of a
max, 25% of max. Everything's broken
down. If I leave this alone, it's based
on the unspecified target type setting.
Now, if I come down here, you can see
very close that again, it's got kind of
that automatic range. It's not
thrilling. That's not going to do us any
good. We're not going to hit anything.
So, we're going to have to optimize
that. Now, here's where things get kind
of interesting. If we're taking a pot
shot at something very, very slow,
there's nothing wrong with firing at a
longer range. If we're taking a shot at
something that's close, we definitely
want to take something in a much, much
shorter range. Let's put those two
things together. So, we're going to go
ahead and leave this one to automatic
firing range. You can see automatic fire
to max range. And you can see that's
what it's currently set to. Let's limit
this to 75%. Uh, low performance
reconnaissance, 75% seems pretty good.
Medium performance 75. We'll say high
performance. Again, this would be
unlikely, but we'll drop that down to
half range. Now, low performance
bombers, you can take that shot pretty
far at medium performance bombers.
Again, we'll bring the range in a little
bit. We'll say a high performance
bomber, we're going to have to basically
fire that in point blank range. Now,
when it comes to fighters, we'll go
ahead and set 50% to kind of beat the
minimum. Once we start getting into
proper maneuverability, we really want
to drop this into what they call the no
escape zone shot. Now, what this is
going to do is this is going to create
basically a curve. If we don't know, of
course, we'll just fire um basically
half range. We'll shoot at half range.
Now, this is going to create a bit of a
curve to engage the targets. Not only
we're firing more missiles, but we're
also changing the range at which we're
firing them. All right, let's go ahead
and declare both of these targets
hostile. Now, we don't know what either
of these targets are. They're just a
little bit too far away for us. We'll go
ahead and speed up time a little bit
there to get a little closer. SA2 does
not have all the range. We're not
shooting S300s here. And yes, I go
between the SA system and the um
basically the complex number
interchangeably. It's just kind of how I
knew it and when I learned it
originally. 9K12. There you go. All
right. So, we have one unknown target
which is giving us a little bit of
trouble here. And it's a very small
moving target. And this one right here,
our crew is actually identified as a
bear. So, this one is known as
unspecified. Now, check this out. If I
grab my SA2, shift F1, and then click on
it real quick, you're going to see here
that it is considered an unknown target.
So, it's going to be firing three
missiles at 50% max range. Now, check
this out. If I shift F1 and click on
this buddy, you'll notice that it is
going to be firing 75% of max range.
Now, that creates a really fun little
situation for us where this target will
be shot at before this target, even
though this target will come into range
first. The reason for that is simple
because it's going to be within it 75%
arc. Again, 50% of this distance, let's
see, that's 22 miles. 50% would be right
here. And again, 75% is going to be
right in here. And it looks like, oh, it
might just Oh, there it goes. And there
goes the first launch right there. And
you'll notice here that we fired. Let me
go ahead and control D this again. Nice.
You can see this guy panicked and
started turning. And you can also see
here that we're actually engaging the
targets, which we knew was the
slowmoving one. Now, one of the things
you'll find really interesting here as
this missile continues to climb up.
There's actually three missiles here.
Very, very difficult to see, but they're
all there. Trust me. If I do one of
these, you can kind of you can't really
see them. I don't know how they fire
them all off in such quick salvo. I
don't know what the deal with that is.
That's okay, though. Watch the magic.
Boom. Boom. Pause. Now, you'll notice
none of those missiles struck. As a
matter of fact, if you look here, the um
generic salvo of the shaft actually
failed the first time. These two groups
actually succeeded. So, but the funny
thing is, remember how we only had a one
in three shot of actually hitting
anything. You'll see here that my final
probability of hit was actually 28%.
Which is actually not bad at all. We
still missed again cuz 1/3 on a one
missile is just not going to happen. But
the interesting thing is is that our
math was actually very accurate. So,
we're going to go do this again. Again,
this is a group of three missiles here.
Have you ever wondered why they went
through so many SA2s during Vietnam?
That is definitely going to strike them.
All right, the probability you finally
beat us here. Let's see here. Um, one of
them failed to spoof the sensor. Let's
see. Had a pretty good chance of
spoofing the sensor. Coming over here, I
rolled a one. So, of course, I blew him
out of the sky. But, as you'll notice,
it took a lot of missiles to do that
accurately. The interesting thing is our
other buddy here is like, "Well, I'm in
a MIG 21. I'm out of here." And he just
sort of like turned and ran. [laughter]
I have no idea where he thinks he's
going to land right now because he
certainly has no other runways on this
map right now. So like I don't know what
this guy What are you What are you
doing? Like you know what I mean? Are
you running? Where are you going? Let's
see. He's engaged defensive. Uh I'm
going to unassign you and then you can
go back to what you were doing. He's
still engaged defensive. So the reason
he's engaged defensive was because the
fire control radar came on and that's
enough to basically scare him off which
is actually fairly realistic.
So let's go ahead and reset the
scenario. And this time it's a little
different because we have a Patriot. A
Patriot is a much much higher
performance system. So if I were to
actually come down here again, we're
applying what we've learned, so to
speak. So for example, if I were to grab
this E model, which we have quite a few
of these loaded right now, uh you can
see that a probability of hit is 95%,
which means it's only going to take a
single missile fired at a good range.
Now, Sharp Statisticians will point out
the fact that 55 miles is 95%. 95% is a
target that doesn't turn between 2 and
55 miles. This would go down to about
60% if we were in a situation where um
we were firing a missile that knew we
were firing on it and basically was
beaming the missile. So, we're going to
need at least two against a maneuvering
target against a non-maneuvering target.
Don't waste our time, so to speak. So,
let's go ahead and run this through and
go ahead and like I said, control shift
F9. Let's head to one more time here. Uh
we're going to go over to the Patriots.
We have the Gam Twos and we have the
errants. The errant are the little ones.
You'll notice the default is one round.
Uh they're very confident about the
Patriots capability here. I'm not as
confident about the Patriots capability.
I I know how these things usually go.
So, what we're going to do is we're
going to go ahead and reduce the range
there for shooting at something unknown.
41 miles is a really long distance. And
again, I'll use 41. That's a little more
confident. Again, something that is um
definitely going to be easily engaged
here. We probably want to go to no
escape zone cuz anything super
maneuverable is going to be very
challenging. From there, we can
basically work our way down. So, that'd
be 50% of max. Less maneuverable
fighters, we'll keep it at 50% of max.
That's going to be fine. Bombers,
they're never going to be able to get
away from that. So, we'll go down to
like 35 miles. It's like 2/3. Medium
performance, we'll go down to 50.
Everything else, we're just going to pop
right up to 75% because let's be honest,
it's it's not going to matter. Uh, let's
see here. 50 miles for that. Medium
performance, we'll do 50 miles for that.
You'd be amazed how easily this uh shot
is going to go down here. So, we'll do
75% there. Awax, let's be honest, Awax
can turn. Uh, UAV is a waste of time,
but um, you want to shoot those
basically minimum range here. Tankers,
75. Don't waste my time. Class two UAVs,
I'm just going to say in 50% it's UAV.
They're going to waste your ammo. Guide
weapons. I'm going to leave all that
stuff alone. Now, we're going to let the
errant do its thing here. If anything,
we can order the errand not to fire. So,
the errant right there, you've got the
extended range mode kind of a thing like
that. And if I scroll down here, let's
see if I can get you the details. 40 mi.
So, the errands are going to fire a
little bit later. So, let's unpause.
We'll go ahead and flag both of these as
hostile. the Patriot crew. The
interesting thing about the Patriot
compared to the SA2 is an SA2 is a very
hands-on missile system. The Patriot
basically a memo pops up and says, "Did
you want to me shoot me? Would you like
me to shoot this thing down for you?"
And all you do is basically say yes. It
does the job for you. It's actually It's
kind of weird, but again, it's the way
it works. All right, we're coming into
range now. Um, we're not going to fire
because again, we've adjusted the ranges
quite dramatically. Now, the interesting
thing is, um, these are both unknown
targets right now. We don't actually
identify them. Again, we don't have that
NCTR that's going to give us that
capability. They're going to have to get
a lot closer before we can safely
identify them, which is going to give us
that kind of 50 mile limit. Now, check
this out. Both of these targets get shot
at more or less at the same time at a
range of that's a distance about 40 mi
away. So, these are actually the
problem. Nope, those are gams. Those
aren't errands. But again, that's your
75% point. Now, the scary thing about a
Patriot, if you've never seen this thing
in action, is look at how high it goes.
It's at about 40,000 ft here. And it's
just peaking as far as speed goes. And
now it's going to make its way down. Now
I can tell you without a doubt this
would be a fighter. One of the things
that I wish command has, which it does
not, is I can't manually mark something
as a fighter. I know that that's a
fighter by the speed it just turned and
how quickly it is. So I should be able
to flag it as such so that in the future
we're not wasting missiles. This guy, on
the other hand, is doomed. [laughter]
There ain't going to go well for him. As
a matter of fact, I'll open up the
little page here so you can watch the
fireworks kind of do their thing. This
thing's basically re-entering orbit
right through his roof. And you can see
no problem. End game. What was the
probability it hit there? It was an 85%
chance to destroy him. And of course, we
tried to use salvos of Chaff. It's not
going to happen, guys. Chaff ain't going
to stop that. Meanwhile, our Mig 21 is
on the run and he's basically going to
outrun the missile, which is one of the
reasons why, like I said, I wish we
could manually flag him as a hostile
target. Not as hostile target, but as
know being a fighter because um he's
basically going to run out of fuel as he
runs from us. But I'm not complaining
about that part. So, as you can see,
it's all a matter of knowing the
probability of hit of the weapon, the
ranges you're engaging at, and the type
of targets. Enjoy.