# C: MO - Manual Time on Target Calculation
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=84hRgY7Qous
Video ID: 84hRgY7Qous

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be showing you how you can
manually calculate time on target, even
if you have things with complicated
waypoints. Now, keep in mind, we can do
a lot of this already with the mission
planner, but sometimes it's fun to do it
the old way. Now, the way we're going to
do this is we're going to use the
world's simplest spreadsheet. Again, try
to keep this relatively basic here. We
have simple inputs. We're going to have
the cruise speed of the weapon, which we
can get right out of the database. It's
a tomahawk. It's going to be 500. We
have the arrival time of the weapon. And
then of course all we have to do is
enter the total distance the specific
weapon needs to travel. So one of the
things you can see here is my travel
time here is in minutes. It doesn't do
anything. And of course my launch time
is here. Now let's say that we're
traveling 250 nautical miles. Now if you
think that through really really
quickly, you'll realize 250 is half of
500, meaning it's going to take 30
minutes to get to its target. So when I
press enter, you'll see here that it
quickly calculates 30 minutes. It tells
me my launch time, of course, will be
9:30 a.m. Cool stuff, right? So the
calculations for this is actually really
really really simple. To get travel
time, we simply take the distance
divided by the cruise speed and you
multiply that whole business by 60 to
get minutes. Now for launch time, this
is where the math gets a little weird.
We're going to take the time that the
weapon needs to be struck and then we're
going to subtract the time that the
minutes is divided by 1440. Now you're
sitting there going 1440. I feel like
I've heard that number before. That's
correct. Uh that is how many minutes
there are in a day. And basically we're
subtracting days. Unfortunately, these
decimal days as times inside of sheets
and that would give us our time. So if
we had 100 here, 150, 200, 250, you can
see that the spreadsheet will quickly
tell me exactly what times I need to
launch my weapons in order to get there
at the same time. So with that taken
care of, let's head back over here and
actually let's work it out. So let's
assume one of our weapons is going to be
a straight shot. So if I look at that
there, that's uh what have we got?
149.5.
So I'm going to come down here. I'll
clear this all out. 149 or 0.5 means we
need to launch at 942 for my straight
shot. It's pretty easy. Let's go ahead
and do a couple deflection shots here.
We'll do one here. We'll do one here.
And we'll do one here. So, this is going
to launch from here. It's going to
travel a distance of 154.1.
Uh 154.1. And then from the 154.1,
again, control D. I'm going to drag down
to the target. That's going to be 30.1
plus 30.1. I'm just working this out in
the sheet as I go here. All right, let's
take this shot here. Uh, that's going to
come down to here and that's going to be
about 155.7.
155.7. You got to be careful with your
decimals. And then from that point, it's
going to be traveling up to here, right
there. And that is 45.1 plus 45.1. Nice.
That was 451. That could be a problem.
All right. And then our last shot, which
is actually going to come from inland,
more or less. We're going to go all the
way to here. We can actually do it from
here to here to here if you wanted, but
I'm going to do it the easy way. Click
on that weapon right there. And that
looks like uh 188.3
188.3 plus. And we need to measure the
distance between that waypoint and our
target, which is going to be about 40.2.
All right, let's go ahead and take a
look at what we've got here. So, you can
take a look. Tada. So, we can see here
very clearly that our first weapon is
going to be launching at 9:32. That's
very, very soon. It's also going to be
traveling a distance of 228 mi. It's
going to take it 27 minutes to do it.
Our final missile is going to launch at
9:42.
Now, we have to be really, really
careful with time acceleration here. So,
what I actually recommend doing is
hitting the buttons at the bottom here.
So, if I hit that and I unpause,
theoretically, that should only get me a
minute or so, but I'm going to monitor
it real carefully here. Kind of be
gentle because the amount of times I've
overshot my targets is uh ridiculous.
All right, we're looking for 932 and 35
seconds.
All right, almost there.
9:32 and 35 seconds. Get ready on the
space bar. Two. One. Boop. Boop. Boop.
Boop. Boop. Boop. Pause. All right,
let's do it. So, I'm going to do shift
F1. I'm going to click on the target.
I'm going to go ahead and come down to
my tactical tomahawk. Here's the one
I've got loaded. Double click. I'm going
to click it. Press plat course. And now
you can see it's tal final destination.
But I'm actually going to click right
here because it's going to be my
waypoint. And if you notice here, it's
going to go all the way past the site.
Hit that waypoint. It's actually going
to turn around and come back that way.
Press the escape key. I'll go ahead and
close the screen. And we're going to
unpause. Our next weapon is going to be
and 54 seconds.
All right, time to launch. Shift F1.
We'll go ahead and pick the next target.
We're going to go ahead and fire another
one. U if this gives you trouble, by the
way, with this double click, one of the
things you can do is you can clear the
course and then if you click it, you can
then plot the course. Remember, that's
going to be the weapon that we have down
here. Good. So, I'm going to go and
unpause and it should go ahead and
deploy that weapon, which it did.
Perfect. Our next launch is 937 and 54
seconds. 937. I may have just broken the
course, but that's okay. That you'll get
the idea when we get there.
All right, here we go. Two. Three.
Pause. All right. Shift F1. We'll select
the target again. Select the tactical
tomahawk. Grab this one. Clear course.
Click it. Flat course. And we're going
to pick that point that's all the way up
here. Click right there. Press the
escape key. Close. Unpause. There it
goes. It's on its way. All right. Our
next weapon is 942 in 4 seconds. And
infinite
brilliance. I accidentally can't talk,
but I accidentally overshot it by quite
a bit here. So, unfortunately, we're not
going to see the direct shot, but that's
okay. Anyway, but what we are going to
get to see is we are going to get to see
the other shots. And that's fine because
these were the tricky ones anyway. Now,
what you'll observe here is because we
did the math so precisely, all three of
those weapons are arriving at the target
more or less simultaneously, any
inaccuracies from this process that
you're observing right now is really
because I didn't measure it accurately
enough. And if we actually were to
unpause this and check, you will notice
our first weapon struck at 59, our
second at 08, and our final weapon at
14. So, this is an interval of 9
seconds. Uh, this is was an interval of
6 seconds. Now, that is what I call
accurate. Enjoy.