# C: MO - Naval Mine types and the ways to detect and deal with them
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8LcvBud3kj4
Video ID: 8LcvBud3kj4

Hello everyone, in today's video we're
going to be taking a look at mine
warfare, uh the different types of mines
and some basics on how to actually deal
with them. Now, when people think of
mines, uh they usually typically think
of what I kind of call uh movie mines,
which are those old school 1908 to 1915
floaty types. And if I go over to weapon
real quick here and I just type in
floating real fast, these are the mines
that basically look like this. Uh
they're going to have little sensors on
the outside, which could be acoustic
sensors, they could be magnetic sensors,
they could be contact sensors, meaning
you have to actually bump the mine to
set the thing off. This is a very old
school type of mine and believe it or
not, they're still pretty popular
because you just throw these things off
the edge of the deck and hope that you
don't drive over it later on. Believe it
or not, these are actually very very
difficult to detect even though they sit
on the surface. Uh not only are they
difficult to detect, but you also
probably realize they come with some
nice little quirks, which make them kind
of interesting. Now, the other type of
mine that you're going to see as well is
something called a moored mine. These
are mines that are going to be sitting
on the If you want to imagine you take a
little cable, usually it's almost like
an anchor. You're going to drop them in
the water, the anchor's going to slam
into the bottom and these are going to
float upwards and they're going to be
sitting below the surface of the waves
waiting for somebody to come by. Now,
they come with a bunch of different
types of tools for detection. Uh again,
they can use magnetic, they could use
pressure, they could use contact, which
is a little harder because you have to
know exactly where the thing is. Now,
these mines are kind of cool because
obviously you can't detect them by
looking down at them. And second of all,
to get rid of them, you've got to cut
the cable, let the thing float to the
surface, and then you got to use regular
gunfire to kill it. Now, this is a
really classic type of mine and it only
really works in depths that are shallow
enough to support it. That also means
the crew that's laying it has to know
the exact depth of the weapon that
they're going to be using.
The next type of mine that you're going
to see is going to be
the most frustrating of all,
and that's going to be a bottom mine.
These things are annoying. The good news
with bottom mines though is you don't
have to worry about them in your deep
water because if you drop one of these
things at 10,000 ft depth water, it's
just going to float to the bottom and
not bother anybody. These are mines that
are basically thrown off the edge of
airplanes typically, although they could
be subs, they could be boats. And what
they do is they just sit in shallow
water and they listen. And there's a
bunch of different fusing types. I have
broadband simply mean is something loud
going by. You have narrowband, did
something loud go by that has a certain
sound signature to it. You have pressure
fuses, is something making a pressure
change above us. And of course, you have
the incredibly lethal type, which is a
remote controlled mine, which somebody
basically on the shore basically sits
over the button goes, "Hey, a ship's
going by." Click. And you'll notice it
is unsweepable. You also notice that the
seismic fuse mine is also unsweepable.
These mines we haven't figured out a way
to deal with them yet because they're so
darn effective. Now the neat thing is if
you float down here, you'll see nobody
actually drops these in this default
game. Uh both of these like I said are
those kind of specialty types, but like
I mentioned, they're pretty nasty. These
are basically smart mines if you want to
kind of think about it.
The next type of mine you're going to
see is something called a captor mine or
I like to call it a torpedo mine. These
are mines that again, I picked this one
particularly. There's different
countries have different variations on
this. That is a torpedo housed inside
the mine. Uh what it actually does is it
sits at the bottom of the ocean, detects
a submarine typically, and then shoots a
torpedo at it. Uh which is an
interesting problem cuz it makes it very
very difficult to deal with. And again,
this thing is just chilling until it
hears the right sound to actually go
off.
And then if that weren't bad enough, you
also have these guys. Uh these are mines
that are basically torpedoes that run
out of energy and float down to the
bottom and become bottom mines. Uh these
are kind of neat because you can
basically use them to get the mine where
you want to go. For example, let's say I
want to put a mine right here, but
there's an anti-aircraft battery right
here. What I could do is I could fire
the mine here, it would hit the water,
and actually swim here, and then drop
itself down to the bottom, keeping me
out of the danger zone of the actual air
anti-aircraft system. Now that's pretty
nasty. And now one of the things I want
to emphasize too with all mine warfare
is it's indiscriminate. It doesn't care
who it explodes. And again, some of the
more modern types that you saw, the
unsweepable varieties, are very, very
nasty in that regard. So, you always
have to remember that if I set a mine,
you're basically denying everybody. The
other thing you need to keep in mind is
that mines, if you put a thousand mines
into this area, there's still the
probability we could get through without
bumping into anyone. Let's show my point
here. So, what I have right here is I
have the merchant vessel insurance
claim.
&gt;&gt; [laughter]
&gt;&gt; That's an awful name, I'm sorry. And I'm
going to order him to go straight
through the minefield. Uh you can't see
the minefield. Woah, there it is. So,
I'll go ahead and I'll let you see what
happens here.
Yes. Did you just notice that a ULCC, an
ultra large crude carrier of 420,000
displacement tons, deadweight tons
actually, sorry. Um sailed right through
without any damage, and we have the
world's most deadly mines there. And
that's one of the interesting problems
with this, is that if he were a mile to
the right, he would have not hit one or
two, he would have hit probably seven on
the way over. As a matter of fact, if I
were to grab him and put him over here,
I'll go ahead and be mean. Sorry, MV
Insurance Claim, but I need you for
demonstration purposes. All right, go
through.
Oh. Ah. Oh. Ah.
Now, what you'll notice here is he's so
big that every time he hits a mine,
&gt;&gt; it only scratches him. Oh, he's done.
Well, MV Insurance Claim, you you you
did your purpose here. And if we
actually were to back up real quickly
here, you'll see he probably went
through like four or five mines here. As
a matter of fact, let's see here. 1 2 1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8. He hit eight mines, and
now you can see that the difference in
course made that much of a difference as
far as hits. And that's one of those
things that I want to sort of emphasize,
is that these are not well placed as far
as actually trying to do it, but that's
again a video for another day. Even the
the rising mine didn't hit him, which by
the way is a bottom mine that floats up
and then explodes. I forgot to mention
that, my apologies.
So, as you can see, very dangerous. So,
my MV Insurance Claim probably doesn't
have a working engine right now. Yeah,
the diesel's
Oh, they're cooked. So, we're going to
make them operational and we're going to
send him back to home base here, which
unfortunately is over here in Block
Island. Again, um I'm not going to worry
about that too much cuz he's going to
hit about six more on the way over. So,
how do we deal with this? Well, it all
comes down to the type of actual mine
that you're dealing with. Obviously, um
you have to know that it's there and um
unfortunately, our MP insurance claim
did a pretty good job of detecting that
mine for us. But, one of the old-school
ways of doing this, which is a stupid
way to do this, is to get something
that's really, really durable in order
to go directly through the minefield.
Now, the cool thing here is I like how
it says I can't sell land. I know.
So, um the reason this is kind of a neat
trick is because believe it or not, if
we can figure out the path this thing
takes, if we know that it takes that
path and gets through, we found a safe
path in the minefield. And um what I'm
doing here is I'm actually going ahead
and drawing these two points here and
I'm just making a mental note of this.
So, in the event that I want to use this
as a safe path to get through later, I
can just have all my ships that are
following basically follow along behind
it. Now, the fun thing with this
strategy is uh you'll see in a moment
here.
Also, he didn't round that corner where
I rounded that corner.
Uh let's put him right there. Okay, here
we go.
Oh boy.
&gt;&gt; I feel sorry for this guy.
Okay, have fun uh USS Volunteer.
Uh-oh.
See, the problem is the water's really
shallow here and they did not model the
channel. So, as you will probably
observe, um unfortunately, every time
that he takes a little kink in his turn,
this is up just path fighting in action
here. I have to actually make a little
adjustment to this so that it works
properly.
Uh there we go. Okay, go swimming.
All right. All right, haven't anything
yet.
Wow, that was the uh world's most uh
torturous course you could possibly have
taken here, but um like I said, for this
purpose, this is pretty good. All right,
USS Volunteer. Oh! Oh, nope, USS
Volunteer clipped one.
All right, but the nice thing is we know
that the USS Volunteer hit the mine for
us. And let's see how bad he did.
Remember, this is a battleship. This is
a pretty big ship. Uh damage control,
what happened?
Nothing.
&gt;&gt; You heard a thump and everybody said,
"What was that?" And meanwhile, there's
some guy who was like reading a magazine
who basically probably got ejected
through the ceiling, poor guy. But the
reality is I know this is a safe path. I
could go get my insurance claim and send
him back through this again if I needed
to.
Now, that didn't work great. So now
you're saying, "Well, didn't you have
some mines that were floaty varieties?"
Uh yeah, we do. And now as I was
mentioning earlier, those floaty
varieties are actually low enough in the
water that a very, very sophisticated
maritime patrol aircraft, such as my
lovely little P-8 here, Mr. Mister,
can't take these broken wings.
Um cannot detect those floating mines.
And you can see here he's uh just kind
of chilling scanning that whole region.
Even if I were to try to lower his
altitude, he's just not going to pick
anything up. And uh while I'm saying
that, too, I just want to point out the
fact that uh your assistant volunteer
here, if I were to turn on his surface
search radar, which is not messing
around, he's not going to be detecting
any of those floating mines. Like I
said, they sit kind of low in the water,
so you're not going to be able to
identify them right away. Now, one thing
you could technically do is you could
see them, again, if you had a good view
of this. So one of the best tools we
have for detecting mines is actually
submarines. Uh submarines have lovely,
lovely tools on board, such as
ultrasonic radar. Not ultrasonic,
high-frequency radar, I'll be more
specific here. If it was ultrasonic, we
couldn't hear it. High-frequency radar
is cool because it has the ability of
basically picking these things up
accurately. It's very, very
short-ranged, and it's difficult to
detect at a distance, which is a huge
advantage for us. So what I'm going to
do is I'm going to go float this sucker
on and off about six times. And I'm
going to go ahead and aim my uh lovely,
extremely expensive submarine at uh our
destination here. And I'm going to order
it to go at creep speed. Obviously, if
you want to go a little bit faster, um
you're
Yeah, you try that. Whoa, we found one.
Now, the interesting thing is the
Careful Now sailed underneath this
drifting contact fuse mine. Now, the
cool thing here is in the real world, I
could send a little ship with a gun on
it and basically just go pew pew, blow
that thing up. But unfortunately, I'm
going to have to sweep it conventionally
cuz the way they model it. Whoa, what's
happened? What you'll observe here is my
USS Careful Now has done a beautiful job
of detecting those mines basically from
underneath them. You also see the USS
Careful Now is being attacked by two
torpedoes. Now you're sitting here going
there's no torpedoes here, but there are
torpedo launching mines. As a matter of
fact, there's 60 torpedo launching
mines. So, one of the things you can do
is if you want to make the world's most
irritating scenario is you can mix those
in with the regular their explody kinds,
and that causes a basic disaster for
anybody trying to get through them. As a
matter of fact, you can see that my
Careful Now is going home because I'm
not risking a Seawolf class submarine
against a bunch of mines. That guy is
doing 35 knots through a minefield. That
seems safe. The worst part is he's
probably going to attract about six or
seven more.
I feel sorry for this guy. Uh basically,
those mines are going to go sailing by.
Not the mines, the torpedoes are going
to go ripping by. And then by the time
he's finished turning around here, he's
uh probably going to smack himself in
about six more of these things. Sigh.
Oh, here comes another one.
Well, I'm about to use lose the USS
Careful 9 to an underwater mine. Notice,
by the way, the uh torpedo mines here
are having a real tough time actually
hitting him. But again, nobody No
submarine captain in their right mind
would ever do that speed underwater
through a minefield.
&gt;&gt; He's having a bad week. Go go go go go
go.
The incredible thing is at 35 knots,
those torpedoes are having a heck of a
time actually tracking him. So,
ironically, the Careful Now is probably
going to survive. The Careful Now is
going to survive. By the way, we did
find some mines with the high frequency
sonar.
Now, as you also know, there are
wonderful wonderful ships that have the
capability of basically doing mine
sweeping as well. Now, the key thing
with these ships is that they are
usually designed to be not blow up if I
bump into a mine. I actually I take that
back. If they bump into a mine, they
will explode and they will be snapped in
two cuz they're so tiny. But, they're
built of hull materials and special
tools that make them less likely to set
off different mines. Now, one of the
problems with these, and now this is a
definitely a
Did you know this was a problem kind of
a problem? Is the fact that a lot of
their sweeping equipment only works on
certain types of mines. Additionally,
any of their sweeping equipment on board
is only going to operate when working in
a straight line, which is really
important. So, if I grab USS Hope and
Pray here and grab him real fast, uh
you'll notice he's got a couple
different tools. He has a very, very
good mine hunting set off uh sonar,
which works fantastically. And he's also
got many different tools that he can use
for the purposes of breaking these
mines. For example, you notice we have
the cable cutter variety, which is
basically, remember the moored mines
with the cane chain? What it will do is
it will snap the chain, the mine will
float to the surface, and then you just
blow it up the old-fashioned way. We
have acoustic and magnetic influence.
These are pretty cool. Basically, make a
bunch of noise and cause all sorts of
magnetic disturbances and it causes the
mine fuses to go off on their own. By
the way, modern mines will ignore that
automatically and explode on the second
pass. Isn't that irritating? And of
course, if you really have to do it
properly, you can send a diver down
there with an explosive charge. Uh
that's going to take a hot second to do,
by the way. So, keep that in mind when
you're working with this. So, anyway,
let's go ahead and grab this guy. We're
going to go ahead and flip on his uh
sonar here. Does a good job. Again,
these are some pretty good sonars. Uh we
can flip some radar on, too. It really
doesn't matter. The reality is, if
you're on I need to sink mine situation,
you're just going to have to accept the
fact that people are going to know
you're doing it. Uh that's part of the
fun.
Uh speed up a little bit.
And he gets going. And if
That poor guy is having such a week.
So, one of the things you'll notice here
is my little mine sweeper mobile is I
got these little blue things behind it.
It simply represents the area in which
it's sweeping mines. I'm just going to
say this now, if you attempt to sweep a
mine that's floating with something
behind you, you're going to smack into
the mine.
It's I know, it's one of those things
that's like, well, yeah, but the reality
is it just doesn't work that way most of
the time. So, just be really, really
careful that before you send him in
here, you have a good idea where the
floaters are before you start going for
like the bottom mines and the captor
mines and stuff like that. But
basically, what this guy's going to do
is he's going to be sailing right on
through. He'll try to sail through. I
could have done sail away, that would
have been a good choice. Notice when he
turned, by the way, he stopped breaking
the mines and he's going to basically
line himself back up and then he can
start sweeping again. Just check it.
Yep, the sweeps come back out cuz
remember the chain has to kind of follow
it. Basically, it's kind of you know how
this works, but he's got the duty and
he's going to go through.
Now, the other thing we can do, too,
when we want to deal with all sorts of
mines is we can actually come up with a
more effective way, which is using
something in the air to sweep the mines
so we don't have to constantly put our
little boat at risk here. Like you'll
notice Oh, no!
As you notice, the uh hope and prayer
was annihilated and it got annihilated
by our friend Let's see who got the
insurance claim is being repaired. It
got blasted by a rising mine and it's
gone. And you can see, so much for that.
All right, let's go try this a different
way and get ourselves a helicopter. So,
I have the LPDOMG. I'm going to go ahead
and click right here. We have hovering
doubt and mild concern. I'm going to go
with hovering doubt for this. All right,
come on out, hovering doubt. You're a
secret weapon here.
All right, I feel sorry for hovering
doubt here.
So, as you're probably noticing, this
sucks. Um again, if this were a warfare
and I'm trying to do a basically an evil
invasion of this entire region here, I
don't know what Providence did to me
this week, but um too bad.
It's It's tough. It's really really
really really tough. Now, we have
something called the ALQ-220 Oasis,
which is a kind of fun little tool. And
uh the thing too is it's a magnetic
influence tool only. Uh there's no cable
cutters or anything here. You're only
working on one type of mine. Now, if I
come in here and I go ahead and flip the
sucker on, uh there's a couple little
rules this helicopter's going to have to
basically follow to do so. Uh one thing
is for sure is that uh he's got to get a
lot lower. You're not doing that at
altitude. Come on down to normal people
altitudes, please.
Come on down.
There we go. Come on down. Come on. Come
on. Yes, you can realize how insanely
dangerous this is. I'm dragging a cable
behind a helicopter. That seems like a
good idea to me. What about you? And
obviously we got to slow down quite a
bit here. We can't be a ripping along as
we're doing this.
There we go. Let's go ahead and take a
look real quickly at that sensor. I
believe it has a specific uh height that
we have to operate from. There we go.
Uh yeah, I'm just going to do it the way
that I normally do it.
All right. So, what I just did is I
created a quick mission, a mine clearing
mission. For those of you who've not
done mine clearing missions, it's the
same thing as a regular mission. Just
make sure that when you define it that
you set your flight size if you want it
to be one at a time. And the other thing
too is if you remember from the mine
laying video, we actually had the
ability to repeatable loops if you
wanted to find a more tight range. Now,
one of the things you'll probably
observe here is the fact that this
helicopter has dropped its tool and it's
uh basically actually got actually go
into this one and put this one back on
uh manual there, whatever I have to tell
it, just so that it works automatically.
So, one of the things you'll notice is
it's a very, very tiny sweep. And uh
this is a very much the case. It's a 300
m wide sweep here. And if we're trying
to sweep this entire region of mine, we
have these two little tiny helicopters
with their little tiny things. Now, what
you'll notice here is they automatically
went after that mine, which was awesome
because as you probably observed from
our MCM buddy, he didn't do much. But
again, every time they detect a mine,
they're going to try to go ahead and get
it and uh see if they can blast it.
Remember, some of these mines won't be
set off by these helicopters. So, even
though we're ripping around here and uh
doing a real nice job. As a matter of
fact, I'm going to intentionally expand
this a little bit, which is going to
cause them to basically zero in and see
how they just blasted it.
I can have these two helicopters go hard
in this region for a very, very long
time. As a matter of fact, what I'm
going to do is I'm going to expand this
a little bit. And again, I'll switch to
God's eye view so you can kind of see
how many mines we've hit so far today.
It's been a few. All right, we'll spread
that out a little bit and just kind of
let them go at it for a little while.
And again, this region here is only
about four nautical miles wide, which uh
from a navigational perspective, if
you're dealing with a really, really
tough situations, uh this probably
wouldn't be accurate enough. And again,
our helicopters are ripping around with
their tiny 300-m fingers, uh basically
going through all this, trying to clean
out anything in here. And as you're
observing, they're not doing a great job
because they can only influence certain
types of mines.
All right, I'm going to let them kind of
do that. We'll go ahead and grab our LP
OMG. And just for giggles, we'll go
ahead and order the LP OMG right through
the minefield that we {finger quote}
cleaned up. Let's see what happens. Here
Ha ha ha [laughter] ha ha,
we did it. Now, the interesting thing
here, of course, is look at how many
mines there still are. So, it just gives
you an idea of how stupidly annoying
these things really are. So, let's go to
losses and expenditures real quickly
here. I think you'll find this
interesting. So, they lost a total of uh
these are the ones we blew up. Uh so, we
got 11, 12, 13 mines. Uh I laid 300
mines today, by the way. So, uh we got
uh about 5%, a little less. Not good.
Not good. Expenditures on the flip side,
uh you can see Remember those uh torpedo
mines? 17 torpedoes were launched at my
Seawolf there, and incredibly, he didn't
get sunk from it. You can also see that
my contact, I set off 14 of these, which
is a lot. Meanwhile, remember our little
mine vehicle? It got tapped by this one
and basically snapped in two. And of
course, the rising one did quite a bit
of damage. We lost the Avenger, and of
course, that's nasty.
So, where am I going with all this? And
why is this all important? What's really
important is if you're doing a scenario
that involves mines, you have to
remember that you don't have to sweep
the entire ocean. So, what I have here
is, as I was mentioning a second ago,
this thing's 4 nautical miles wide. It
doesn't have to be 4 nautical miles
wide. Take a look real quick.
What I want you to see here under our
message log real quick is if I just go
down this, you'll notice our surface
detonation here was 450 m away from the
helicopter that passed by it. That's
half a kilometer when these weapons are
actually going. And if you actually come
over here to our generic mine warhead,
the one that actually broke our poor guy
here, unfortunately, this one, you'll
notice here that it detonated directly
underneath. So, this was a zero nautical
mile hit. You'll also notice that this
guy actually took several hits
previously, too. Uh the going from this
one you can see here that this range was
also an underwater detonation. That was
a pretty darn close. Oh my goodness,
this thing got nailed. Armor da da da da
da da da just trying to see uh the MMV
insurance claim. And you'll see that the
one that was taking the hit at our
battleship went off at 1,300 ft. Now,
that means and again, if you want to
take kind of the thing to take a look at
this, that our giant cleared the zone
out did not need to be nearly this wide.
If we know that a mine's effective range
is only going to be about, let's say, a
kilometer at the most, this could have
been a lot smaller.
We could have built it for this size.
This is almost exactly 1 km apart, and
we would have been okay. Keep in mind
though, that would mean that if we were
to try to go down the middle of this
thing, we'd have to be perfectly down
the middle of this thing. So, for
safety's sake, you probably want to at
least double the area that you're
covering and sweep a 2-km wide zone.
Otherwise, you're going to get a lot of
those surprises. Another thing too with
any sweeping is the job is never done
because even though we got most of them,
we really didn't in the end. Enjoy.