# C: MO - Missile Performance at Different Altitudes
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8WqQ-alekog
Video ID: 8WqQ-alekog

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be showing you why missiles do
not get the range that they do when you
fire them in the low part of the
atmosphere and when your target is in
the low part of the atmosphere. Now,
it's a common phenomenon. We have this
nasty thing where the air gets thicker
as you get lower. And these beautiful
weapons are not like the ones in the
movie where when you fire the weapon, it
basically burns and burns and burns and
burns all the way until the hero dives
out in time. Most modern missiles
actually only fire for about 10 to 20
seconds and then they burn out and
basically use momentum to carry
themselves to the target. Now, when you
put those two things together, what
you're going to see today is going to be
very, very clear. All right, so we have
ourselves an F-16. It's uh packing these
wonderful A120DS.
Fabulous, fabulous weapons. And it's
cruising at about 500 feet above sea
level here. And meanwhile, we have a
tupal lift 95. Very large target. And
you can see it's chilling at about 200
feet above sea level. It's cruising
awfully slow. So, as you can see, we are
already in range of firing our aim of
120s. And again, this would be an ideal
solution sort of situation. And again,
our range here is about almost 90 miles
with this particular weapon, but we
can't use it at this range for about 100
different reasons, and you'll see why.
So, I'm going to go ahead and order my
attack here. I'm going to click on the
tupalive here. I'm going to pick two of
these weapons. And again, I'm basically
creating the worst firing scenario
possible. And watch what happens here.
You'll notice we're not firing. We're
not firing. We're not firing. We're not
firing. We're not firing. Still not
firing. Just cruising along here. I got
to get right at space here. Oh, pause.
And you can see we have launched at
about 45 nickel miles, which is about
half of the maximum range. Now, this is
where things get really, really tricky.
And I want to show you this so you can
see it very, very clearly. So, our
missile now has to do several things.
For one, what it has to do is it has to
travel upwards through the thickest part
of the atmosphere for the purposes of
making its way to us. So, as you can see
here, it's basically climbing like this
to get into the thinner parts of the
atmosphere. Now, as it's climbing here,
its motor is still going. And then the
motor burns out, which now means our
weapon, which had to fight gravity, and
the thickest part of the atmosphere now
is lost almost all of its energy. So,
our weapon here now is coasting. Keep in
mind, you actually see how it's slowly
going downhill here. And we're cruising
at about Mach 2 and a quarter here,
which is plenty. Now, the problem here
is is because we're already really,
really, really slow, our maneuvering is
now going to be limited. So, what does
our missile do? Even though gravity's
helping push it along right now, it now
has to get through the thickest part of
the atmosphere again. And as it's diving
through here, you can see all that
transsonic drag is grabbing onto our
weapon here, and it's just sucking the
energy right out of it. And now you can
see here our interception kind. He's
down to about 10,000 feet here. I'm
running at 2x. And you can see 70. He's
about 510 knots, which anybody who's
played any flight sim involving missiles
would say, I've outrun missiles before
cuz you just turn around and run away
from them. So, as you can see here, ah,
this missile's got like nothing left
against it. And of course, if we're
shooting against a maneuvering target,
that maneuvering target would have no
difficulty in the world getting out of
the way of that. It could basically just
turn. And you can see it ran out of
energy. As a matter of fact, if we open
this up, you can see here our original
probability to krill is 95%.
But you can see because it literally ran
out of energy. You can see the
probability is down to 30%, cuz the
missile is just like, ugh, give me some
more. And of course, agility adjusted.
By the time you get to it, it's only got
a 1 in4 chance of actually doing damage.
Now, you're going to sit here and say,
okay, then I kind of get what you're
going there. So, basically, you're
showing that if you take a shot from the
lowest part of the atmosphere, your
missile runs out of energy before it
even finishes its climb to get any
reach. Yes. Excellent. So, you say,
"What if I fire it from a higher part of
the atmosphere?" I say, "Oh, I was
hoping you'd ask me that."
So, what we're going to do is we're
going to take my level F16 here, and
we're going to fly him up into the thick
part of the atmosphere. As a matter of
fact, we're going to cheat to get them
in the real thick part of the atmosphere
real, real quickly here. Let's see.
40,000 ft. Enter. Aha. Now, my F-16 is
ready to go. So, now none of the weapons
energy will be wasted trying to get
through the thick part of the atmosphere
on the way up. It's still going to use
quite a bit of its energy in order to
basically get an initial climb there to
build some power, but wait. Do you see
the differences in speeds involved here?
All right, I got to get ready on the
space. Oh, it helps if you turn on the
radar on this thing. And again, an F-16,
for those of you who played BMS, you
know that the F-16 can easily easily
take shots at those ranges. All right,
let's take a look here. So, that was a
65 nautical mile shot. And again, this
shot was fired almost 20 miles farther
out. So, let's go ahead and open up our
three-dimensional view here. I'll go and
slow down time a little bit so that you
can see it clearly. Let's grab that
missile one more time and watch what it
does differently this time. So you can
see here just like before it climbs but
the atmospheric density is only about 10
to 15% of what it was. So it's not
dealing with all that extra drag as it's
powering itself. So as you can see it's
still running on its motor now and it's
basically climbing as much as it can to
try to get a nice lofted shot. So when
it basically re-enters orbit it's going
to have all of its energy back. Ah, see
the burnout. So now this thing is
coasting in the thin part of the
atmosphere and it's almost, if you want
to think about it another way, on a nice
gentle ballistic trajectory here and
already we're moving twice the speed
that we were traveling before. Now this
is where things get really interesting.
This is what always surprises people. So
as this weapon starts to reenter our
atmosphere here into the thicker parts
getting out of the tropopause here, it's
going to pick up speed because of
gravity. But as it re-enters, because
the engine is no longer firing, it is
literally going to start slowing down as
it hits that thicker part of the
atmosphere. And this thing starts
getting really hot as well. But you can
see relatively speaking here, just the
altitudes involved in trying to take a
shot at this target. So the interesting
thing is from a radar perspective, this
is actually very irritating of a shot
because I have to drop on top of
something and uh that makes it easy to
get confused when you look at the
ground. They always say fly low to avoid
radar stuff. They're not joking. But
what I want to show you here is our
missile now because it had so much time
to reenter and it spent so much time at
higher speed is doing Mach 2. This thing
is booking. This thing is almost three
or four times faster. So as it drops in
on our Tupalift 95 who's barely going to
have enough time to see this weapon,
assuming he does see the weapon at all
before it hits him. In reality, you
wouldn't even have known you've been
shot at. And of course one of those.
Let's take a look what happened to our
probabilities here. So 95% chance. Our
final chance to hit was a 5050. That's
awesome. That was no problem. As a
matter of fact, I'm actually kind of
surprised we missed. Talk about uh just
bad luck. Sometimes that happens. And
again, um anybody who's ever done
anything and read anything about warfare
knows that that just happens sometimes.
All right. So, we could see here that
our probability doubled. So, let's go
reopen our scenario again and let's
create the ultimate ultimate ultimate
method to go ahead and utilize this
weapon. We're going to create everything
in perfect ideal conditions here. I'm
going to grab my Tupelift 95 and I'm
going to order it up to maximum
altitude. Let's see here. Maximum
altitude for us is going to be 45,000
ft. Oh gosh, what an easy target. Let's
go ahead and grab the scenario editor
here. We're going to grab its
properties. We're going to go 45,000 ft.
Delightful.
This is basically unfair. All right,
let's grab our F-16. We'll go ahead and
flip on this radar one more time. We'll
go ahead and pop the F16 to maximum
altitude.
Now, the interesting thing you'll
observe here is if you had to take this
F-16 and launched through up to this
target through the thick part of the
atmosphere, we would have had the
identical problem we had before where we
basically have run out of energy before
we actually were able to take the hit.
It would be a little bit better only on
account of the fact that the air is a
little bit thinner up there. All right,
let's go set our altitude to 40,000 ft.
Perfect. And now we're chilling at
40,000 ft. We're going to order our two
missiles to fire here. One, two. Just
like that. And yeah, like I said, we
could switch to the F-35 if you want to
see me take a much longer shot, but
we'll do that in a second. All right,
watch this. You'll notice my F-16 fired
right here at about 64 nautical miles.
So, already we're increasing our max
range of engagement here. Let's go grab
one of those missiles real quick. We'll
go bring up the attack view here. People
always say, "Is Tac View worth it?" I
said, "This is what I use Tac View for."
So you can answer your own question.
Okay, so our weapon here is using all of
its boost capabilities to get it up in
the upper upper upper atmosphere here.
And you can see the engine just burnt
out. So at this point now we're
basically just kind of coasting. You
know, you can see we're going arcing
pretty high. We're about 76,000 ft. If
we zoom out a little bit, it's a little
more obvious to kind of see the
trajectory. And you can see that it went
up and now it's coming back down to say
hello to our friend Tupelift 95 there.
So, now that this one is re-entering
atmosphere here, you can see it's still
doing 2270, which is well, let's see
here, uh, Mach 4. And, of course, we're
striking a target in the thin part of
the atmosphere. This is basically unfair
here. Weapon turns on its radar, and you
can see our intercept speed is um, still
Mach 3 and a half. Oh my goodness. Watch
this. Watch this. Oh boy. Oh,
splattered. Now, take a look here at
what our in-game report is. base to hit
was 95%, final probability to hit was
88%.
So, we almost doubled again our chance
of hitting because our speeds were so
much higher. Now, you can take this to a
logical extreme as well. Take a look
here. Let's grab my blue here real fast.
Let's go ahead and take this one.
Goodbye, F-16. You were awesome, by the
way. Let's grab myself an F-35. I'll
grab a C because I like the C. Uh, we'll
grab I don't know, the transmit receive
version. We'll do light internal
standard cap only two. Ah, that's all I
need. Don't worry. We'll be able to take
care of it without any concerns here.
All right, you're going to go up to
maximum altitude, which by the way is
50,000 ft. Now, if that doesn't impress
you, waiting to see the shot I'm about
to take. All right, let's go back to
red. I'm going to back this guy up.
Otherwise, he's never going to get to
the altitude. We'll send him to max
altitude. I'm going to go right click on
him. We're going to go and edit his
properties directly. We're going to send
him up to 50,000 ft, which again, he can
do 45,000, so it'll level off in a
second. And then of course I'm F-35
which I have to back up cuz this shot's
just got to be fantastic. Watch this.
All right, try my radar. Look at the
reach on this radar. Gosh, this F-35 is
a UFO as far as I'm concerned.
There we go. All right, let's keep
climbing here. We need to get a little
more altitude. And again, I can just
come over here and quickly edit it. Edit
unit properties. Unit properties of
50,000 ft. Okay, watch this. Watch this.
Okay, this aircraft is at the thinnest
part of the atmosphere and this aircraft
is at its thinnest part of the
atmosphere. I have the entire deck is
stacked. As a matter of fact, I'm going
to cheat a little bit and I'm actually
going to give this missile a little bit
extra energy. Now, you're sitting there
saying, "Wait, what did you just do?"
So, what I did is I kicked the
afterburners on. And now, when you kick
the afterburners on, what you do is you
impart a higher launch speed on your
missile. Now, some people say, "Does
that really make that much of a
difference?" It's it's minimal, but it's
there for those of you who are curious.
And you can see I'm up to 780 here. So
again, my missile starts at 780 knots
before I even take the shot. Oh, even
more than that. Cool. Let's go ahead and
lock onto this target. I'm only going to
fire up here. Actually, it's an F35. I
get a couple. There we go. Now, watch
this. Let me speed up time a little bit
here. Oh my goodness. Mach 1.5 and an
F-35. You are brave, sir.
Now, the joke here is you'll notice I'm
not really burning a lot of fuel either.
Now, the reason for that is again my
engine's not working that hard because
the airship's in. Ah, I fast forwarded
past the shot. My apologies. All right,
let's go ahead and take a look here. And
somehow we uh overshot, but that's okay.
I can always go like this and take the
shot again. All right. Um, did you like
forget to shoot or something like that?
Uh, like what's the year here? Oh,
target is outside vertical bore sight
limit. A all that says here is the fact
that our tupelive 95. We got to adjust
our bore sight a little bit to take a
better shot. Sigh. All right, come on
down to 45,000 ft.
There we go. There goes the shot.
Actually, I don't even like that shot.
I'm going to delete that shot. I do not
like it. Delete. Delete. Much better.
And we're going to go ahead and take
that shot again. And we get a little bit
closer. And again, the reason he
couldn't fire was she was looking down
too far, basically. If you want to think
about All right, watch this. Watch this.
Watch this. All right. Looking good.
Looking good. For some reason, he's not
going to the manual overridden altitude
I just ordered him to. Hey, buddy. I
gave you an order. Do it. Unit
properties. I'll just manually order him
down there. All fixed.
Shift F1. Take the shot. One. Two. He's
just slightly out of DLC cuz if he turns
around, this is going to be pretty
pointless. There it is. Nice. So, you
can see here we fired at maximum range
minus about six or seven nautical miles.
Now, check this weapon out. We'll go
ahead and grab the F-35. We're going to
order him back to manually. We're also
going to actually, we can't order him to
base unassign. And obviously, we need to
keep him going this way because
otherwise he won't be able to guide the
weapon. Sorry. All right. So, these
weapons now left the rail already doing
800 knots. So, now we've given them a
little push. So, let's go ahead and take
a look at this from the side. And you
can see these weapons are maxed out.
They are just going everything ham here.
They're climbing at maximum speed. They
got that nice little push that we gave
them a few moments ago. They're still
burning. The motors are going to burn
out any second now. I'll go and speed up
time a little bit for you. And look at
this. They just burnt out at 72,000 ft.
So, if this dupal of 95 was smart, uh,
he'd be trying to get the heck out of
there because this weapon now is again
four times the speed of sound as things
gliding through. And, uh, that was a
shot at maximum range. Remember, we're
shooting at twice the range that we were
shooting at at the initial example
there. This thing's cruising about
80,000 ft. It's arcing back down here,
and it's just going to glide. I wish we
had a 3x speed for weapons like this,
but it is what it is. All right, we're
re-entering the orbits here. Go pull
this to the side if I can. Pull like
this so you can kind of see it like
that. And the radar gets turned on. Oh
my goodness. Look at this. It's
intercepting at Mach 3 and a quarter.
Well, this fight's got to be pretty
short. Assuming that we hit him the
first time, but that's okay. Oh, it's
over. Over. All right, let's go take a
look here. So, remember the percent to
hit was a 95%. And let's see, adjusted
for speed was 79. We lost a little bit
of speed there. That's okay. and we had
our final probability of hit of 77%. Our
actual probability of hit went down
because we launched at such stupidly
long range. So hopefully that reveals to
you very quickly why weapons don't work
as well as they should. Uh the big thing
is once you get into the thick parts of
the atmosphere, they're just not going
to work great. Now, one of the
interesting things a lot of people kind
of remark about is they say, "Doesn't
that make SAMs a little more challenging
to use?" Yeah. Ironically, if you're at
low altitude, a SAM has a really, really
hard time of cutting its way through to
you. Also, low altitude, you can hide
behind things. That's why systems like
the S400 make this a little bit trickier
to get away with because the missiles
are gigantic. They're like a bus
launched at you, so they have plenty of
energy by the time they get to you. But
again, that's just another example of um
again, little details. Now, somebody of
course is going to say, "Hey, could you
give me some more information on like
what speeds missiles go at?" Yeah. Go
ahead and click right here. Scroll down
and you can actually see here on the
database page the speed of the weapon.
So you'll notice here if I fire between
36 I get Mach 4.62. All I have to do is
go a little bit lower and I lose
almost.7 Mach. And you can see if I
stupidly shoot this thing at like less
than 10,000 ft. Look at my Mach. It's a
2.6 is the peak speed. Gosh, that's a
different speed that you can get in
this. Uh some people of course comment
on what about the old AM120B? I like
that version. I do like the A120B. And
the cool thing about the A120B is that
it's um pretty much the same speed, but
it's a continuous burn, which is a
little bit different. And again, it's a
little bit shorter range, but it is
very, very easy to use in that regard.
And one of the things you can do too as
you're going through here is you can
learn everything you need. For example,
home on jam capable flight pile
profiles, level cruise flight. Then you
can jump up to the C7. And if you look
here again, level cruise flight. I go up
to the D3. Oh, this is the new one. Oh,
I haven't played with the new one yet.
Now, check this out. The new one, Oman
Jam, allspec capable lock on after
launch. Nice. Um, INSGNS. It actually
has a GPS on board. Uh, uses GPS and of
course it's level cruise flight. Now,
people of course say, "What about that
missile U8?" Oh, yeah. What about that
missile I hate? There it is. You'll
notice our AM7, believe it or not, uses
the same technique. So, this is why,
again, I hate the AM7 because it's not
very fast, as you can see down here, and
it has a stupidly short range. It says
38 miles. I think you get lucky at 10
miles.