# C: MO - Laying Minefields accurately and easily
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Aefk11L9VA
Video ID: 9Aefk11L9VA

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at making mine
fields uh whatever shape that you desire
rather than kind of letting an aircraft
or submarine do things willy-nilly. So,
of course, uh this scenario comes
inspired by the fact that some guy in a
sailboat cut me off. Now, as if I had a
sailboat. No. But, what we're going to
do is that we're going to go ahead and
set a chain of mines in an interesting
little pattern to basically uh cut off a
Providence's harbor here. Now, one of
the things you have to know about all
mine-laying missions, and this is where
most people get a little kind of
confused here or get in trouble, is the
fact that different types of mines have
different depths they can operate at.
And uh the reason I say that is if you
take a look at this one, for example,
here, this is a 2462, you'll notice that
it has a launch altitude, which I would
just need to be kind of mindful of. Uh
you have a target altitude. Now, this is
the important part. You'll notice here
that its target altitude is minus 148
ft, and it is a bottom mine. So, that
means basically if uh you choose to drop
this thing in water deeper than 148 ft,
it's simply not going to drop. And
that's just kind of one of those things
that happens quite a bit uh when you're
doing these mining missions. So, I'm
pulling my mouse here, and I can see
this whole region here is pretty
shallow. As a matter of fact, if you
want to have a little bit of fun with
this, if you go to the relief layer, you
can actually see the depths here, and
pretty much everything is valid as far
as a mine mission here. So, this makes
it pretty good for our particular
purposes. So, normally when people think
mine missions, uh they think this kind
of thing. Uh they do one of these kind
of actions, and they're ready to go,
which is awesome. Um mine zone. But, uh
the problem with this, of course, is the
fact that you're going to be dealing
with a random placement of mines in this
region. So, to say you can't use this
method, it's just to say it's not very
precise. So, what we're going to do
instead is that we're going to delete
that, control delete by the way, and
we're simply going to draw a line of the
shape of the mines we want to place.
Now, I want to basically cut off uh
Cuttyhunk Island basically all the way
through Nantucket here. So, I'm going to
go ahead and uh create myself a line,
and we're going to have a little bit of
fun with this line because, you know,
why not? Well, this is a really good
fishing here, so I want to kind of go
around there. And again, I'm pressing
control insert and left clicking here.
And uh that's going to be the path of my
mine fields, which looks pretty bizarre,
but it's actually going to work really
well for us.
So, now what I'm going to do is I'm
going to control F11, which is going to
bring up our mission page. Uh
mine this, yo. And now we're going to go
ahead and set this mission to be a
mining mission, not mine clearing.
There's nothing about type here. Um we
don't have the fancy PE version or
anything like that. So, we can miss out
on some of the fun toys in here, but
that's okay.
I'm going to press okay. Everything's
good here, but uh before I toss my
backfire into this, I'm just going to
confirm that everything makes sense.
I've got arming delay of 2 hours. Uh
this is plenty, but since we're an
aircraft, I could do 1 hour. And of
course, it's like do you want the 1/3
rule? I don't need any of that. Now, one
of the things you're going to notice
here in the upper right is we actually
have this thing called line versus
random mine mode. Now, this is actually
pretty cool because it allows you to
basically define groups of mines. And uh
this is definitely something for another
day cuz you can set like the distances
between the mines and stuff. But, the
way we're going to do it is going to
make it a little bit easier. Except, I
do want to set a mine interval here. So,
let's see here. The Tu-114 20 20 I think
it's 40 mines in this version. Let me go
take a look real quick. Apparently,
you're joining the mission one way or
the other. Uh let's see here. Whoop.
I push every button but the one you
need. All right. So, we'll go ahead with
the Tu-95 real quick. I'm just going to
bop this one real fast.
You're already uh launched yourself. Oh,
thank you for that.
&gt;&gt; [laughter]
&gt;&gt; All right, there we go. All right. So,
what we did want to do is we just want
to confirm how many of those mines we're
actually carrying today. I believe it's
40 if I'm correct.
I'm in 40s. That'll do it. Who needs a
mine when you got a nuke? Let's see
here. 20 20 22 42 mines. Excellent. So,
that makes this much easier to do the
division for us. All right. So, we Oh,
as you can see, this looks funky. Um
don't worry. We'll deal with this in a
second. All right. So, that's going to
be uh 9 nautical miles. That's going to
be uh what was that? 8. So, that puts us
up to 17. Uh that's going to get us up
to uh that's 24. Uh coming down here,
this is another six. It's going to be 30
nautical miles. And coming over to this
one, that's another so that's a 44
nautical miles is going to be the
distance of our mining up here.
So a couple of little things we're going
to do here. We're going to go shut off
the flight size to set it down to one or
shut off the enforced flight size
button. Otherwise, it's going to give us
issue and then finally, we're going to
change this uh movement style to
repeatable loop. Now, if you miss that
step there, you're going to get a little
confused and you got to be careful. But
one of the things you just saw me
calculating here was the total distance.
Do you notice how we have a line here
instead of an area? This is going to be
the area by which we're going to be
dropping our mines. Now, a minute ago,
you probably noticed that I was uh
cranking out this calculation here. So,
we're dealing with 44 nautical miles
times about 6,000 ft. So, that's 264,000
ft and we need to cover it with 42
mines. So, total feet divided by 42
means we need 6,285
ft between each one of our mines, which
basically means there's one mine per
nautical mile. Now, anybody who knows
anything about mine warfare knows that
would be absurd. You just wouldn't do
that. But we're going to do it anyway
because we're silly. So, I'm going to
say 6,280 ft here. I'm leaving the group
interval not set. It doesn't matter. And
obviously, y'all we're not doing any of
those. So, we're going to be going in a
repeatable loop. We've got our aircraft
sets, uh tankers aren't doing anything
like that. Everything is set here. Uh
station altitude, obviously, make sure
your station altitude is set correctly
cuz obviously, if you're too high, too
low, it's not going to work, kind of a
thing like that. So, just be mindful of
that as well. All right, we're going to
do multi-mission for a second. Ah, this
thing is being funny for me today. Am I
going to win or what?
All right, let's watch the magic.
Unpause.
Go my two political
Oh, sorry about that.
But if you take a look, you will observe
that in that little
of action, that's a technical term, by
the way, uh you'll notice that it laid
the mines perfectly around that little
fishing zone, which is exactly what I
intended for it to do. Uh the other
thing you'll notice if I press control D
and do this quick measurement, you'll
see it's 1.1 nautical miles. And all for
those of you who can do math quicker
than I can, you can confirm that it's
exactly about 6,280 ft apart. Now, we'll
go speed up time a little more gently
here.
And you'll see Look at how good of a job
he's doing.
Gosh, this guy is really good at this.
Now, the interesting thing is, and this
is where you have to kind of keep an eye
on these kinds of missions, is that the
fact that he's going to run all the way
back to RP 7, and then he's going to do
it again. But, um again, this is just a
demonstration. I think I think you got
the idea here. All right, he's going to
come here. Now, you're going home.
Nope, he's coming back.
Do I need to move you? Hot you.
Sometimes a little bit of nudging makes
a big difference here, but uh one of the
things you'll really, really appreciate
is the fact that when he comes up in
here
&gt;&gt; Why did you do that?
I believe my guy got a little carried
away here. Um you're going a little out
of scope by dropping those on the island
itself, but as you can see, the distance
is is absolutely perfect, and I'm going
to send you home because you've done a
beautiful job. Now, we can't just set up
a mining mission without having a little
bit of fun, though.
One of the nice things about uh modern
vessels is that they tend to have tools
on board, which makes it a little bit
harder for them to get crisploded by um
basically an inadvertent mine. Again, if
you missed where the minefield went,
look at how beautiful this is. Isn't
this so cool? And again, this works with
sonobuoys, too, by the way, you know,
we've done videos on that in the past.
But, the key thing here is uh he's just
going to be rolling, uh just enjoying
his little thing, making all sorts of
noise, and boom, water, boom, and he
cooks it. Uh okay, let's let's take a
look at what we actually got for damage
here. Now, damage control, this is the
Iowa taking the mine right on the cheek,
and you can see here it's uh basically
popped the servox, the uh decoys. It has
uh mangled the Mark 13 fire control, and
as you can see, this thing only took 1%
damage. So, if we were awful, which I
am, uh we're just going to order him to
drive right through the minefield at
full speed here, cuz uh like I said, I'm
an awful person sometimes.
Do do do do do.
Boom. Oh, he missed the first one.
That's no fun.
See, the thing with mines is you
basically have to land on them to
actually get them to go off. So, as I
mentioned, boom.
&gt;&gt; This guy's just taking them all.
As I was uh This is a tough boat. This
is a really tough boat. But, what I
really love about it though is he's at
8.4% damage here and he's about to drive
over another one of these mines. And
again, as you probably observed, once
one of my ships find one of these, it's
it's pretty much over because there's no
mathematical way that more of these
vessels are going to get hit. You can
just see he just took another hit and
he's just just chugging along.
Fantastic. Enjoy.