# C: MO - Weapon Records and Mounts
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_4bB81QPcFc
Video ID: _4bB81QPcFc

Hello everyone. On today's video, we're
going to be showing you the differences
between a weapon and a weapon mount.
Now, I was noticing over on Discord a
couple days ago, some people were kind
of caught up on the whole concept of
"Well, I want to add things to the
loadout on an airplane." Now, as we all
know, we can't just willy-nilly add
things to a loadout on an airplane. You
know, if I were to, for example, quickly
create myself a handy-dandy airfield
here. Airfield, grab this one, it
doesn't matter. You'll notice that if I
were to come over here and let's say add
an airplane to it, and grab myself a 5X.
Yeah, that sounds good to me. I just
need one of them for my demonstration
here. I go over here, press this button
right here, and go ahead and say "All
ready arm." Let's go boop. Let's see
here, ready arm.
As you can see, I have not a lot of
choices here. You know, whatever they
have here is what we're going to get for
that particular mission. Now, the reason
this is important is an aircraft such as
my MiG-28 right here, you have to
remember that if I do have a specific
loadout, I can't change the loadout,
land the plane, and then have it keep
that loadout when I get in the air. If I
intend to have a modified loadout on it,
I actually have to edit it in
mid-flight. So, what I want to do is I'm
going to grab my MiG-28 right here, and
I'm going to go ahead and uh click on
the weapons button. What you're going to
notice here is we have two different
things here. We have the internal
loadout. This is the bit that's always
attached. And then below that, we have
the actual loadout. Think about this is
the stuff dangling off the wings. Now,
the reason this is important is you'll
notice that when I click on my 20 mm
here, see down here it says "Add weapon
record, add mount." If I go over here
where it says "Loadout", you'll notice
it says "Add weapon record, add mount."
But, if I click here, you'll notice it
says "Add mount." That's because
everything is handled in a slightly
different way. If you want to think
about it another way, our little AIM-9s
here, this is the weapon. The four out
of four is the actual mount, and then
the loadout, the total bit here, is
actually the one that you have up here.
So, the reason that's important is cuz
of this. Let's say I want to add on an
A-120 to my MiG-28 right here. I guess I
would have to add one of the Alamo
missiles or something like that. But,
I'm going to do an AIM-120 because
science.
So, what we're going to do is we're
going to come over here, and I'm going
to press "Add weapon record." You're
going to notice if I come in here and
type in AIM-120, I'll get a 120D cuz I'm
a silly person. You'll notice all the
possible combinations, including some of
these very absurd options like this. Uh
keep in mind, things that have rate of
fires of 60 are usually things like
magazines that do loading. They're not
intended to be utilized like this. So,
if I grab this, yeah, we'll carry eight
of those cuz why not? It says "A data
missile has a data link. Would you like
to add one?" So, one of the new features
they actually added, which is absolutely
fantastic cuz we didn't used to have
this in command, is you'll notice if I
add a data link weapon, it will
automatically offer to add it onto our
aircraft. I'm actually going to click
yes right now. And what they're going to
do is they're going to say "Is this the
one you want to add?" And you say "Yeah,
that's the one I want to add." And what
they'll do is they'll actually stick
that in there. But, what you'll probably
observe is this is the wrong data link.
So, uh when we do this, uh we need to
make sure that we actually search by the
appropriate item here. Now, if you skip
that step, you're going to find that you
have no control over the weapon itself.
It's worth noting here that there's
actually different types of AIM-120. You
have the command data link, which tells
it what to do. You have the missile data
link, which sends information back. And
then, of course, you have the two-way
versions as well. And then, you have the
really, really absurd off-board version,
which allows you to do silly things like
launch uh guided missiles with a CEC
cooperative engagement here. So, what
I'm going to do is I'm going to
So, one of the common mistakes people
make is when they start experimenting
with loadouts and editing things to make
the game uh more challenging or whatever
they're trying to do there, you have to
remember, if you get this part wrong,
you're not going to get any launches.
So, it's actually very, very critical.
You'll notice I'll just I'll run the
example here because it's important you
see it. Let's add more stuff to this
aircraft cuz why not?
AIM-7P.
I like the P2 if I can get it, but I'll
stick with AIM-72. Notice it did not ask
me at all about adding anything about a
radar. As a matter of fact, if I click
the S A R H S A R H link here, it's not
even going to tell me, unfortunately,
what particular item that this is going
to be guided with. So, we might fire
this weapon and discover we're not able
to get a sufficient illumination to
actually even launch it, even though we
put it on there and it didn't yell at us
for not having the appropriate data
link. So, kind of keep those pieces in
mind when you start experimenting. Now,
the other thing people like to do is
they like to add in air-to-ground
weapons. They're like "Oh, you know,
it'd be awesome if I had a GBU-12."
Yeah, GBU-12. Ooh, we have the D model.
Yeah, I'll take one of those.
Our MiG-28 is a Wunderplan Wunderluft or
whatever the equivalent would be. I
don't speak German, as you know. So, now
we have this lovely guided weapon, which
is has a laser spot tracker, but we have
no laser spot tracker technology. So,
this is where people get really, really
sophisticated. They're like "Well, what
if I do a targeting pod, OSTI pod?
What's the one everybody likes to use?
You have the sniper." So, I'll let's go
ahead and put on the sniper pod, which
is actually two components, but I'll add
the sniper pod. Ta-da! So, now I have
everything that I need on my lovely
MiG-28 here for the purposes of dropping
weapons, firing these different types of
weapons, except for the Alamo cuz, like
I said, we don't actually have the data
link on this weapon. And all these other
options that you have here.
Now, some people at this point like to
say "Well, what if I want to put a 30 mm
cannon on it?" Well, you could do that.
Now, the difference here is remember
we've been dealing with weapon records
here. Like in this the whole secret
weapons. If we want to actually add to
this, we'd have to actually hit the add
mount button. Now, notice there's some
pretty neat stuff here. We can also
define, of course, the arc of which we
used to employ this weapon, and we can
actually go in here and define. So, for
us, obviously, we're looking for the 30
mm.
Uh let's see here, 2A42.
Yeah, no, that's not for us. Let's see
here, China, DEFA. I always forget it's
the GO8, I think it's correct, right? I
always get this one wrong. Ah, there it
is. GO8. Sounds good to me.
So, not only do we have a GO8 now, but
if I turn on the arcs I accidentally uh
set my arc up to be wide. So, not only
can we engage this aircraft like a
Wunderplan, uh we now have the ability,
of course, to fire in any direction in
front of us with it. Keep in mind, this
is independent of the rest of this. Now,
let me show you the big important point
here. I'm actually going to order it
where this guy go flying back to base.
Hey, get back to base.
So, let's uh run inside real quickly
here. I'm just going to grab him. I'm
not going to order him to do anything
silly. Ready arm. Oh, actually, no, I
don't want to do that. I want to go
ahead and set time to ready in 01.
So, he's going to be ready in about a
minute.
I always think of the uh super uh
superheroes.
Super best friends.
All right, let's grab this one. He's 2
hours, not many times. I don't think so.
Let's go ahead and set him to 1 minute.
And we'll allow 1 minute to go by. That
was plenty. 1 minute to go by. Grab him
right now. Go ahead and order my MiG-28
to launch.
And yes, I know what you're thinking.
Just give it a few moments, and there he
is. Now, he's airborne. Now, if I click
on this chap, uh like I was saying a few
minutes ago, remember all that lovely
stuff we did? It's gone. You'll notice
down here that all the original weapons
are there, except
that my GO8 is still attached. Now,
because it's still attached, that's
because when we created it, we added it
to the unit itself. We didn't add it to
the loadout to the unit. So, it's
important that you see the difference
between those two so you don't kind of
get kind of sneaky in that regard. So,
that's it for aircraft. And like I said,
aircraft are tricky. Um again, if I go
over to comms, for example, you're going
to notice I get to keep my data link,
even though I can't fire AIM-120s right
now because I don't have any.
Now, if we're dealing with an aircraft,
in this case, I've got my Q-ship here.
This is my container commercial vessel.
Uh it's a great little ship for this
particular demonstration here. Right
now, it's just chilling in the water, uh
just sort of relaxing. Now, the thing
is, we can do the same exact process
here. I can go up to weapons. Notice we
have to add a mount. There's nothing to
stick this to. So, a lot of people say
to me that "Well, what mount should I
add here?" Well, it depends on what
you're trying to do. Are you trying to
do a VLS? In which case, uh there's
plenty of choices as far as a VLS goes.
Let's see, Mark 41, the Mogami. Let's
see which one do I want? The
Brandenburg. Let's type type. Here we
go, TTT flight one.
And now, of course, I have a Tomahawk
firing capability here. Now, if I want
to have some fun, of course, uh let's
say I want to modify this. I could come
up to this. Again, this is going to
happen when you click it the first time.
I could actually change the number of
weapons here. I'll drop that down to
zero. I'll go run over to my SM. Which
one do I want? The Block 3? Yeah, heck
yeah, I want the Block 3. Give me some
Block 3s. And now, you can see I have 29
Block 3s. I'll go up here to the RIMs.
Um let's see here, 23. That'd be six, I
think. Uh that's about the best we got.
29 out of 29. We're ready to rock. Now,
of course, we have no way to guide them,
hence the uh problem that I was
mentioning many times before. So, what
we're going to have to do is we're going
to have to go over to sensors. You'll
notice we have a couple generic
navigation radars here. We're going to
go ahead and say SPY. Of course, this is
the correct one we want to use. Ooh,
NCTR upgrade sounds good to me. Go ahead
and toss that sucker on there. I made it
face all directions. And now, of course,
if I turn on my radars here, I should
have the capability of actually
illuminating things around me. And if I
zoom out, you can see
no difficulty with that whatsoever. As a
matter of fact, we've detected a target
over there. I'm going to order them to
be hostile, and uh you're going to
notice that our Q-ship here is going to
sit here relaxing. Yep, we're definitely
in range. I guess I'll order an attack.
Aha! Uh you'll notice we have a
307-second
delay before we're actually able to
engage that target because of Just
because you put all the weapons on the
platform does not automatically mean
that platform can employ it. So, I'm
going to go ahead and let that time
expire. I'm going to go ahead and unlock
on again. And here we go. Just like I
was saying in the beginning, the
mandatory data link is still required.
So, again, if you're not sure about what
data link you need, the nice thing is I
can click on this, scroll down, and it's
going to let me know it's an Aegis
missile data link. So, I'm going to go
ahead and grab our Q-ship here, go back
to sensors. Actually, I'm sorry, this is
a comms thing. We have some really,
really exciting things coming up now.
Aegis data link. And as you can see,
there's like 50 of these different
things. And obviously, if we get it
wrong, um we're going to have difficulty
with that. So, it's just kind of kind of
the some of the fun here.
Go ahead and toss that one in there.
Let's see, two-way, that's the SSN
version. SPY, that's the two-way
version. I probably got the wrong one,
but eh, this is what happens when you
try these things. Shift F1.
Uh no weapons director available to
illuminate the target.
So, what I'm trying to emphasize here
and try to make my point is that this
could be very, very, very challenging in
order to find all the different
components you need. Uh for those of you
who have never seen the command
database, like what it actually looks
like to edit, it's intense. Uh when you
come in here and I click on an option
like this, and it's all neatly, prettily
formatted, you don't realize that you're
pulling from like 60 different types of
basically databases in order to populate
the information that you're looking at
right here. It's a tremendous amount of
detail going on in here. And when you
don't see that, it becomes hard to see
why does this not work? Why does this
not work? Why does this not work?
Because for everything else to work
correctly, it needs to be
self-integrated. Now, one thing I want
to say, too, before I kind of end our
video here, too, is uh you'll notice
there's some changes to communications.
I just want to kind of give everybody a
head little heads-up about this. You're
going to notice we have a lot more
properties about communications cuz this
is going to play a much bigger point in
the game coming up pretty soon.
Something to be excited about. And the
last one, of course, is if you go up
here, you'll notice this new add
reference point app function, where you
can actually dial in the decimal degrees
in order to put something at a specific
point. Enjoy.