# C: MO - Simplifying Airstrikes on Complex Targets with Patrol Missions
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agWi0pAUrTM
Video ID: agWi0pAUrTM

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be showing you a quick and easy
way to make it a little bit easier to
strike complex targets so you can
prioritize the things you want to blow
up and deprioritize the things you don't
want to blow up without having a
thousand individual strike missions. So,
let's go ahead and do that now. I was
fiddling around with this a little bit
earlier. So, we have an air base up
here. I feel like I've blown this one up
more than once. Um, they have a really
good uh sushi place, by the way, right
at this air base in the real world. And
what I'm going to do is create an anti-
ground mission on the air base itself.
So, I'm going to go press control insert
here. Go ahead and click that. Click
that. Control insert. Control insert.
Control insert. And this is going to be
my blow stuff up area. Now, as you can
see in the upper left corner, we have a
number of targets here. And there's
quite a few hanger spaces. For example,
there's hangers, all sorts of things.
And we're going to build a mission that
prioritizes, like I said, what we want
to get. So, I'm going to press Ctrl F11.
I'm going to go ahead and create my
mission here. Strike a lot. Why not,
right? Come down here. We're going to do
uh not strike. We're going to do patrol.
And we're going to make this an anti-
ground patrol. You can see it's asa if
you want to think about another way. We
have ourselves a bunch of F-15 Strike
Eagles. These things are fantastic for
missions like this. So, I'm just going
to bring them right down into here. Add
them to our mission. We're going to go
ahead and keep them in squads of We'll
do squads of three here. We'll do cells
today is kind of the fancy term for
that. That's all set to go. That's all
set to go. And that is going to be my
patrol zone. Now, if I let this mission
go as it stands right this second, uh
they're going to have no problem blowing
up whatever looks good. Uh, the other
thing they're going to have a problem
with is a munitions usage. So, what I'm
going to do is actually sneak over to MC
Con real quick. And what I'm going to do
is come down here where it says weapon
state. I'm going to make sure that they
get a chance to use all of their weapons
and then they go home. So, in this case,
you can see mission specific weapons
have been expended. Allow targets of
opportunity. Ah, yeah, why not? They're
F-15s. They're good at that. So, we're
going to let them go ahead and do that
option as well. Cool. All these things
are set. But now, here's where the magic
becomes. I'm going to head over to
targeting priority. This is going to
allow you to define the targets you wish
to blow up prioritized. So, I'm going to
click on create. You're going to see any
any any. Don't worry, that's perfectly
fine. Instead, going to press add item.
Target type. I'm going to come down to
facility target subtype. Ah, look at all
these ones. Now, if you're in the
scenario editor, which I almost
recommend always playing this game in
the scenario editor, but I'm a cheater,
so oh well. I'm going to click this
button real quick here. And now, watch
what happens when I go to facility real
quick. See how it's only the mission
objects? So, let's say we want to
target, for example, bunkers. Uh, we can
come to building bunkers and have them
prioritize that. Maybe I want to do
surface buildings. I could have them
prioritize that. You can see there's a
wealth of different buildings here. So,
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
quickly add all these buildings
individually. I'll show you why. All
right, there we go. Now, the reason I
took the time to break this out into
individuals is I prefer to kind of
prioritize. For example, the AV gas
doesn't actually have a priority yet. We
don't simulate fuel supplies at air
bases, which is kind of a shame. And I'm
sure at some point we'll have that
feature, but at this point it's not a
big priority. However, all these hangers
are and which ones are we most
interested in? Obviously, we'd be
interested in the biggest hangers first,
followed by probably the next biggest
hangers, and then we work our way down
to the medium small hangers, and so on
and so forth. So, those will be our
priorities in this order. So, I'm going
to go ahead and add a new item here.
We'll go into Whoops, I do that every
time. I don't think we have any
submarines in this. I've done goofed.
So, from there, you can have air base.
Obviously, we don't want to fiddle with
that. Where are my access points? I have
bunkers. Let's go ahead and say we want
to do some ammo bunkers. This is
something worth blowing up. And I'm
actually going to prioritize it over the
AV gas tanks here. Uh that's going to be
intentional. Now, from here, what we're
going to do is we're going to add in all
the actual surface items that we can go
after. Keep in mind, surface items are
great if you can see something. Now, a
lot of times you just don't. You can see
both of these are equally prioritized.
So, I'm just going to press the button
add. And you can see it's going to add
open structure. So, you can see here
we're prioritizing big hangers. Then,
we're going to go for medium ones. Then,
we're going to go for the weather
shelters. We're going to do any open
structure, which basically means
anything on the surface. Then we're
going to do the ammo on down. Everything
else is going to be at the very end.
Meaning our bombers are basically going
to be concentrating on this stuff in
this order, which is awesome because
they have a lot of weapons on board,
which is going to make quite a mess for
us. All right, unit settings. So, one
thing I'm going to do is shut off the
1/3 rule. The reason being is I want all
my aircraft to launch at the same exact
time. So, we'll go ahead and get that.
Sometimes what I'll do is I'll actually
set a specific takeoff time. The reality
is they're going to work fine here, but
you know, just for the sake of argument,
we'll go ahead and dial that in
directly. So, let's see here. It is 4:30
in the morning. Uh, we're going to say
takeoff time is going to be 0936
in 2 minutes there. That looks good to
me. And that'll set things up. We can
now create and edit the flight plans. Of
course, like I said, we haven't taken
off yet, so it's not relevant. And we're
just going to confirm that the time
looks okay. 2008 888. Good to go. Now,
here's where the magic starts.
What you're going to observe here is as
they come swinging and screaming across
the world here is they're going to
disregard all those aircraft. And the
cool thing here is they're actually
going to start engaging the ground
targets. Now, if I grab this laser jam
right here, you're going to notice what
is it prioritizing? Oh, surprise. Barnes
aircraft hanger 4x large hang air
aircraft. So, it's intentionally
prioritizing the targets that we did in
the order we gave it. Now, what's kind
of fun here is you're going to see that
he's going to drop a bunch of these off
and he's probably going to go get
distracted by those aircraft over there
that were causing shenanigans. All
right, here we go. Here comes the first
round of Jams. There's going to be a lot
of explosions.
There we go. So, of course, after he's
finished up his run, he's going to come
swinging back in here. He's still got
plenty of JD dams to go. And you can see
everybody's piling on. And if I were to
click on one of these JD dams randomly,
you'll see that it is intentionally
prioritizing the second set of hangers,
which are the ones that survived our
first run of explosions. And you can see
here that we've got these pinpoint
explosions going on. This is probably a
pretty good picture for the title card
here. Oh my goodness. This is so unfair
for the four folks on the ground. Oh.
Oh. Ow. Ow. Ow. Ow. Oh, this is so
unfair. This is such amazing bombing
skill here with like deliberate
perfection. not wasting a single round
of ammunition. You could never get away
with this in the real world, by the way.
You You get one strike and then you
leave kind of a thing like that. And
that looks fantastic. Let's go ahead and
see how we did. We'll go switch teams
real fast here. And we have God's eye
view on, obviously, she'll shut that
down. Check this out. Check this out.
Wow, this place doesn't look anything
like it did earlier. Let's go look up my
losses and expenditures. And as you can
see, the targets that we prioritized
were the exact targets we want. And the
total time it took us to set that
mission up is about three minutes. Now,
if I wanted to do it traditionally, I'd
have to build individual groups and
prioritize from there, and that would
have taken a really long time. As you
can see, it works. Enjoy.