# C: MO - Classical tactical vs Strategic bombing
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dBDmncdpD9g
Video ID: dBDmncdpD9g

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at an
interesting discussion they had in World
War II between the difference between
having a strategic heavy bomber with a
huge payload versus a carrier aircraft
or a light tactical aircraft for the
purposes of, you know, engaging close
air support. So, I said, well, I think I
know how to make this one work. So, what
I did is I went over to Iwo Jima here,
which by the way, if if you've never
tried this one out on Google Earth, take
a look at how tiny this island is. It is
literally 4 and 1/2 miles, about 5
nautical miles wide, like teeny teeny
teeny tiny. So, what I did is I took
this place, I built a little airfield,
and I put a bunch of Japanese airplanes
on it. I built a bunch of these little
kind of common coastal bunkers, and I
tweaked them out just a little bit. And
then what I did is I had you create a
two groups of aircraft. I created one
group of aircraft over here. This is I
think my carrier group. This carrier
group originally had over 3,000
airplanes, but I reduced it a little bit
for obvious reasons. And then the second
group is a way way way down here in
Saipan. Uh this is the United States
group. Uh it's made up of a group of
bombers. Uh we have two bomb wings
essentially here. Um both B-24Ms. And
what I did is I equipped them with an
equal number of bombs. Now, that was a
lot of division on my part to try to
make that one work. So, what we're going
to do is we're going to whack the island
with the navy, and then we're going to
whack the island with the air force, and
see exactly what happens. Then of
course, if we have a couple moments
afterwards, go ahead and grab a, you
know, a battleship, too, and see what
happens. So, let's do it. Let's see
here. Press this button F1. I've got it
already ready to go. I can
take off time. Oh, yeah, let's really
break this computer. Let's see if this
thing's got what it takes. Space bar. Ba
ba ba ba. Watch this. Go. This is just
the warm-up group.
Uh ready then. Let's take a look at my
aircraft carriers. You guys are all
getting ready for a takeoff and taxi.
So, the first group is on the way. Um
when I've experimented with this one
before, uh one thing I have learned from
uh doing this enough times is that the
more airplanes you have, the choppier
it's going to get.
So, here we go. Let's go ahead and now
focus on Iwo here because uh you know,
the airplanes is the fun part here. By
the way, if you really want to see
something terrifying,
that's not even the fun part though.
You'll see what I mean. All right, here
they go. Ba ba ba ba ba ba ba ba ba ba
ba ba ba ba ba bombs away.
All right, they've done their thing.
They're heading back to base here. Got
to go, guys. Got to go. Whoop, here
comes the next ground uh lining up,
setting up for their bombing runs. Ba ba
ba ba ba ba ba ba ba ba ba ba ba ba By
the way, this is what it actually looks
like. All right, they've done their
deed. Now, I'm waiting a few moments. 47
minutes have gone by. Here comes a whoa,
look at how many airplanes that is. Go.
Oh, yeah. Teach them a thing or two.
Kind of reminds me of like a bunch of
bees or something like that. So, yeah,
our total number of aircraft here is uh
something like 384 or something, which
actually is not that much of an
exaggeration. During the actual battle
for Iwo Jima, they had something like 11
full-sized carriers working the island
over. And uh right now, I only got six.
So, this is like this this is being nice
compared to uh how ridiculous it is. Oh,
oh, oh, got some stragglers. Don't
worry, your contributions are important.
Oh, here we go. Here comes the next
crew. Begin. This is a lot different
with the B-24s. Yeah, eat it. Eat it.
All right, those guys are having a
pretty good time. Here comes the next
crew. Let me zoom in a little bit so you
can see how many end up in the water
here.
[Laughter]
They do their little job here. What do
the bunkers just looking like it's in
rough shape there?
And everybody's heading home. Oh my
gosh, look at the computer. The frame
rate's dying.
Okay. So, um
I think I may have just locked up my
recording here. I'm going to go back to
Iwo and zoom in really high. Okay, there
we go. So, that was graphical in nature.
That was not uh CPU in nature. So,
anyway, let's go switch to the other
guys real fast at Japan and let's see
how much damage we did. So, we didn't do
a lot of damage to the airfield, which
is expected based on the WRA. Uh we
dropped something like uh let's see,
take a look here. Uh well, we lost three
Hellcats. 6 768 500-lb bombs here. And
now, the Japanese they didn't go through
enough ammunition here. Let's see here.
Looks good. Looks good. We lost We got a
single bunker. And now, if we come down
here and take a look at the damage of
these bunkers,
uh they're they're not bad. They're a
little worse for wear. Like I said,
nothing nothing terrible.
Okay. So, that was the navy's attempt.
So, now we're going to go ahead and uh
take a look at the US Army Air Force
here. And we're going to say, okay, so
you guys claimed that you could do a
better job than the navy could with
small tactical aircraft. All right,
let's put your money where your mouth is
here. So, we have 96 B-24s here. And
now, one mistake I was about to make is
do one of those kind of things. Instead,
what we'll do is keep them in very very
large flights here. So, go ahead and now
create update flight plans. Boop.
You can also do a trick the system, and
you can actually press the um set a
takeoff time right here. And when you do
that, it does the exact same effect. And
if your computer does one of these
things, that's a clear indication that I
got to pause the video and reload. Okay.
There we go. So, uh we've reloaded. Uh
the missions are activated. Now, we can
see that we've got our 12s. We're going
to speed up time just a teeny tiny bit,
and uh we're going to let the computer
kind of parcel everything out here
rather than uh whack them all at the
same time. We'll of course give them a
little push along the way cuz otherwise,
you're going to be sitting here while
these bombers have to complete, you
know, like a nice 8-hour round trip
here. Hey, how you doing? Whoa.
Actually, it's going to cause problems.
We got to zoom out a little bit here.
One of the problems is that not only do
we have an extreme distance, but these
aircraft take time to get up to their
bombing altitudes. So, what we're going
to have to do is actually grab
everybody, and we're going to have to
basically put them into position so that
they don't have as long of a flight, but
they still have enough time to get up to
altitude here. All right, I think that's
good. Now, if you want to see something
really cool, switch it over here to 3D
view.
This is fun.
Let's see here. 3D view.
So, if you ever get a chance to see
stuff like this, this is amazing.
Watching all these aircraft all kind of
clump together and uh sort of make their
way towards the target region. All
right, so let's speed up time a little
bit. Climb climb climb. 21,000.
Remember, this is daylight precision
bombing we're doing here. Daylight This
is The word is precision bombing. And
now, keep in mind, there's 96 bombers,
but they have the exact number of bombs
as our good friend the Hellcats did. And
I have a feeling they're going to take
slightly less casualties. Of course, in
the real world, and probably uh you
know, 10 15% of them would have some
kind of um you know, mobility
casualties, so to speak. Maneuverability
casualty. All right, it's always fun to
watch. Watch how not accurate the
bombing is.
Well, I mean, here they come. Whoa whoa
whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa. Whoa.
All right, that was the air force
contribution. Whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa.
Sorry, I cut them short. I cut them
short. Let's let them Let's let them do
their job.
All right, anybody else in the air force
want to uh step up? Man, that was a lot
less choppy than it was uh
than from the navy's perspective, but I
can see why. All right, let's go take a
look at what happened here. So, um we
This guy right here seems like he's on
fire, and he's probably a little the
worse for wear. We got some this. The
command bunker of course is completely
unscathed. Makes sense. And the damage
in general is not as complete as the
damage that the single engine aircraft
did. As a matter of fact, if I pop over
to losses and expenditures,
and apparently, I must have deleted a
unit at one point. I bet you I could
tell you which one it was. All right,
let's see here. 768, same amount of
bombs. Uh let's see here. Uh Japan lost
nothing. But, they barely fired any
shots at all, and they just lost
something. So, I hate to say it, but I
think the tactical aircraft actually do
a better job here than um as far as
being precise, at least in this
characteristic. Obviously, it'd be
different if we had, you know, PGMs and
things like that, but that's for another
day. But, one thing I do want to try out
because, you know, why not? We're here
already. Is uh naval bombardment cuz uh
why not? Let's go ahead and uh set
ourselves up here. And what are we
thinking today? Uh Colorado or Montana?
Uh we'll have to try it. Let's see here.
We're going to get ourselves a range of
Let's call it 4 nautical miles. Let's go
to surface ship. We'll go to BB. Um
Iowa's pretty classic. How about
Alabama? Ooh, Massachusetts, for sure.
Cool thing about the Massachusetts is I
visited the Massachusetts. All right,
we're just going to kind of do one of
those. We're going to press F1, drag a
box. We're going to go ahead and set his
speed to creep. So, there's plenty of
time. All right, let's see how our ship
does. Go.
Oh, wait a minute. We should probably uh
modify his WRA a little bit here because
we have this new uh thing that basically
slows everybody down initially.
All right, begin.
That's entertaining to watch.
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, work it.
The best part is every once in a while,
one of these big shells goes by. Oh,
he's having a good time in the airfield.
Not bad. Not bad. Oh, here comes the big
stuff again. Most of that's probably 5
6-in shells.
And not the most accurate I've ever
seen. I mean, at the very least um I
wouldn't want to be there when this is
going on. I'll say that, but it doesn't
really seem to be terribly deadly here.
And it's funny, every once in a while,
one of the 406 comes out. Yeah, that was
a 406. Maybe if I press F9, you can kind
of see the damage a little bit more
clear here.
Oh, yeah, take it. Eat it. Eat it.
I can't believe how much uh 5-in
ammunition I've gone through already
here. This is ridiculous.
And then of course, uh we can't shoot
much out the back now. We have to rotate
so that we can start shooting at the
front again. There we go. Now, we can
get those 406-mm guns to join in.
Uh it's it's a good effort. It's a good
effort. I mean, he's not not doing too
badly here.
I think it's very neat if you come down
to this level, you can like watch like
almost like tracers coming in and
causing little explosions here.
Love it. Let's see. He's got about 30
rounds of 406-mm. Things are looking
pretty good so far. Kind of uh decrease
the range a little bit.
I don't know why he loves that one so
much, but hey.
All right. Let's see here. He's got
about 72 rounds of the really really big
stuff left, and he's working on this
side. Keep in mind, when they did naval
bombardments, it wasn't a single
battleship. It was a pack of battleships
that did it. Okay, let's take a look at
how we did this time.
Take a look at Japan. Uh we didn't
really Oh my gosh, yes we did. Nice. We
dented that sucker up in nice. Uh we
also shot up a bunch of the shore
batteries, and we splattered probably
everything on that side of the airport.
And you can see a bunch of things are on
fire right now. Take a look at losses
and expenditures.
Wow. I don't even want to get the Oh my
god. Imagine the taxpayer bill for that.
Oh god. Scrolling down, scrolling down.
Let's see here. Da da da da da da da.
Amazing. So, we can see from looking at
the three different systems here that
obviously, the tactical aircraft at
least in this era were a little more
accurate than the bombers. Whereas, the
ships uh just they just could kind of
spread it out and just kind of let it go
kind of a thing. But, they were
definitely more vulnerable. But, other
than that, enjoy.