# C: MO - Air to Ground Rocket Weapons and Tactics
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dSKMM3N3-P4
Video ID: dSKMM3N3-P4

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at rockets,
rocket tactics, rocket salvos, and of
course, sort of when to use what for
particular types here. So, we have a
pretty straightforward scenario for us
today. Now, you can see we've lined up a
bunch of targets along the lovely coast
of southern Portugal here. And when I
think of rockets, of course, I always
think of everybody's favorite, the Sukoy
25, because the Seoy 25 is a Russian
airto ground aircraft, kind of like an
A-10. Again, I could have done the A-10.
I could have done the Apache for this,
but I specifically chose this aircraft
because it carries a comical number of
rockets. If you notice here, for
example, pepper spray on the left
carries these little tiny 57 mm rockets,
but it carries 256
of them. There are very few things in
this game that you carry 256 of, much
less several. We also have, of course,
us kicking up, we have Octo Punch here.
He's packing the more common one.
There's 160 S8s. S8s are kind of sort of
in the middle. Uh they are heat rockets,
so they're a little bit better against
like targets that are armored. Of
course, we have concrete argument here.
He's packed in the S13B. This is getting
a little bigger. Uh these rockets are
much much larger. You can see they have
a little bit more of a kick when they do
hit things. It's about a 6 kilogram
warhead on this thing. So quite a kick
up here. But then of course we get the
comical rockets. We have one hit wonder
here, of course, the S24B. You'll notice
this rocket is 38.25. It is a massive 25
kg warhead. And if that weren't enough,
of course, you have OP police nerf. And
you can see he packs the absurd 266 mm
rocket. Look at that. 87 damage points.
Now, for you, you're sitting there
going, "Well, that doesn't really mean
anything to me." Well, let's go take a
look at something real quick, shall we?
Let's go grab ourselves that Iron Bomb
real fast. Let's grab ourselves a Mark
82. As you can see, a Mark 82 is only
marginally more powerful than the
largest of these rockets here. Now, the
interesting thing with rockets is the
fact they're not very accurate weapons.
And for anybody who's ever played a
flight sim, everybody thinks they can
hit a tank with a rocket. The reality is
you're probably not going to get it
unless you're cheating and using
something like the Vicer rocket, which
is laser guided, or using App Quiz, of
course, which is also laser guided,
which actually works well, but slightly
disappointing. You know, maybe we'll
take a look at those later. So, what
we're going to do is kind of take a look
at the general tactics here and kind of
get around things. But, there's one
thing I need to address right away. I'm
going to take pepper spray down here.
He's uh looking pretty good. He's got
256 rockets. And I'm going say, "Hey,
Pepper Spray, do us a favor and go ahead
and go right after that group of trucks
on the left there." Pepper Spray is
like, "Yeah, no problem. Give me a
second." So, you can see he's rotating.
By the way, I've got them already at
3,000 ft. I have them at 3,000 ft for a
reason. You'll see why in a couple
moments here. So, Pepper Spray is going
to come lining himself up. He's looking
out the window. He's looking through the
thing and he fires
one rocket at a time. Now, you're
sitting here with your brain going,
"What? Why would you do it that way? You
know, I just unloaded an entire Not
really. You unloaded eight rockets of
your 256.
In my mind, um, they're charging by the
rockets right now. So, you're sitting
here going, "Ah, that doesn't make
sense. Uh, there's something wrong with
my WRA." So, let's go take a look. So,
I'm going to go pop up my real quick.
Here's my 57mm rockets. And I go ahead
and pop that sucker open. And what
you'll observe here is nope, it's set
correctly. It is designed to go ahead
and have the system default of firing
all weapons at a time. The problem is it
can only fire each one of those rockets
internally so fast. So when you watch
those great videos when you watch the
airplane diving in and it unloads like
256 rockets as fast as you can snap your
fingers. We just don't have that. Uh we
have the ability to basically uh squeeze
one off every once in a while. Of course
depending on the type. Now this extends
a little bit too. So for example, if I
were to grab the uh let's go grab blue
real fast here. Let's go zoom back in.
Let's grab something in the middle. A
concrete argument here has 40 of these
lovely 122mm rockets. If I were to take
a look at kind of the default on these
uh there we go. The 113B. You'll see
it's also configured to one weapon here.
So if I were to say go ahead and uh
shoot it, this would be an absurd
exercise. Let's get a 122 mm rocket and
shoot it at a bunch of trucks. Uh fun
story by the way. Did you notice the
fact we got these little numbers in the
corner? That's how many units is left in
case you're ever curious. I don't think
I've ever actually addressed that in a
video. So, there are actually four
trucks down here, three, and then of
course four in my tank platoon here. So,
concrete argument is coming down here,
and you'll notice it's the same basic
story. Uh, he's basically unloading a
single rocket at a time, and probably
making quite a mess of the ground around
this guy. Although, I think we did just
get a direct hit. It's going to pass
right over the top. It did not matter in
the end. Uh, he went ahead and blasted
that thing. So, you're sitting there
going, "Okay, so how is that going to
impact the way that I approach things?
You know, what am I going to be using
these rockets for? What am I going how
am I going to employ them effectively?"
Well, there's a bunch of things that are
going to change how effective a rocket
is. The simplest, of course, is going to
be the size of the warhead. Then, of
course, we're going to be looking at
basically the range at which you operate
them. So, if you take a look at pepper
spray real quickly here, again, we're
firing the S5s. These are again, any
rocket will cut you in half, but keep in
mind that these things are pretty small,
relatively speaking. And you notice it
has an effective range of about one and
one about 1.3 nautical miles. You can
see that range pretty much out there.
basically not quite two kilometers if
you want to kind of have a general idea.
Now, the crazy thing here is is not only
are you dealing with the problem of
being able to hit a target horizontally,
but you also have to consider it
vertically. Now, if I were to quickly
open up our little page here on rockets
here, you'll see that our launch
altitude is considered a one,000 10,000
ft here. That is above ground level
about 3 km up if you're looking for a
specific altitude there. Now, you're
probably sitting here going, "Where'd
you get 3,000 ft from? That's not like a
standard altitude." Well, most of the
time when you read the literature, it
always talks about a thousand meters
basically being a kilometer up for these
strikes. And that's actually pretty
fair. That does a pretty nice job of
kind of giving you an idea of what you
need to do. So, the key thing here is
this is already basically optimum range
for this weapon. Uh you could definitely
take it out a little bit further forward
if you wanted, but again, if you're
going to do that, you're basically
saturating the area. So, we're already
more or less at optimum range. Now, some
of you are like, well, I want to well,
why make it more optimum? Okay, I'll
make it more optimum if that's what you
like. So, I'll come up to here and I'll
actually have the range. Now, you're
sitting here going, "Why would you do
that?" And you'll notice you can't.
There is no having of the range. The
range is the range on this weapon.
That's just the nature. Now, when you
get up to the hilarious uh 266 mm rocket
here, you will notice none of these have
adjustable ranges, which means the only
thing you can do to control how accurate
a rocket is is going to be your
altitude. Let me show you what I mean
there. So, let's go ahead and grab this
guy and pop him up to I'm going to go up
to uh basically 3 km here. We'll do
9,000 ft. Yes, I know that's not 3 km.
Get over it. So, what we're going to do
is we're going to order him to do an
automatic attack on this fellow over
here on the left. There's actually some
really comedic things you can do with
this, but don't worry about it. Go
ahead, climb up pepper spray. And again,
I think you can guess why I called him
pepper spray here. All right, we're
going to pop you right up to 9,000 ft.
Isn't that so much fun when you do it
that way? Notice, by the way, that my
rockets have a longer effective range.
That's not unusual at all because I'm up
so much higher. And you can actually see
here it goes up to two nautical miles
now that I've got this extra bit of
reach. And again, you can see the arc of
that basically right to here. So, now
that I'm up a little higher, I'm going
to go ahead and order that automatic
attack that I did before. Now, what
we're doing here is we're going to be
exchanging the fact we're going to get
more rockets off in exchange for the
fact that we're now at a higher altitude
and we have reduced accuracy. So,
unfortunately, our fellow here is he's
out coming in. You can see he's got a
bit of a dive going about 3°. That's a
little shallow. You'll notice he's going
to get off an awful lot of rockets until
the basically he has to pull himself up.
And you can see he's at zero degrees
pitch and they all come raining down.
And if I zoom in a little bit, you can
see my spread is it's not awful. Again,
the other thing you'll notice is because
we got that extra um basically half a
mile of range there, we were able to get
off another seven rockets. But you'll
notice the difference in accuracy is
very, very, very, very substantial. So,
if I were to go grab this one again,
again, we got twice as many rockets off
this time. But let's go ahead and reduce
that altitude down to that 3,000 ft you
saw me do earlier. And watch what
happens this time. And again, all we've
done here is we're trading horizontal
distance for a little bit better
accuracy. Now, take a look what happens
here. Fire.
Delightful. Well done. Well done. Good
job, Pepper Spray. You'll notice pepper
spray only got off eight a minute ago.
We got a heck of a lot more. We got an
extra. We got 15 rockets off at 10,000
ft. But what you'll observe here is my
truck vehicles have been shot up pretty
bad. And they've taken quite a few hits
here. These were mostly near misses. And
anybody who's ever done any work with
rockets knows the fact that a near miss
is considered a good day. And again, why
do they call it near miss? Shouldn't be
a near hit, but that's just me. So, now
that you kind of have that concept in
your head, let's go ahead and take a
look at what happens when you spread it
across the caliber of rocket. First of
all, you got to realize that pepper
spray here isn't going to do much to a
hardened target. So, for example, if I'm
like, "Hey, pepper spray, go against my
tougher ammo bunker here." So, the good
news is pepper spray is going to have a
really easy time hitting something that
big. Oh, actually you can see took a
couple freebies as you kind of went by
here. Hey, we're going for this one.
Thank you. I mean, I appreciate the fact
he's being an overachiever.
And you'll see the fact that um we
basically took some opportunity shots. I
mean, they were there on the way down,
so like why not do it, right? But if I
were to go to god eye view mode, you
will notice the bunker took zero damage.
It literally didn't even scrape the
paint on this thing. So, um that rocket
just does not work for it. So, uh, one
of the things you probably noticed is
I'm using eastern designs here. And the
reason I chose that is because whereas
the kind of western philosophy for
almost everything is to come up with,
you know, something in the middle that
can kind of do everything, the eastern
philosophy is we have a different tool
for different jobs. So, as you can see,
our little pepper spray, this thing is
fabulous against infantry formations
because it could just keep going over
and over and over, which we'd never do
in the real world, by the way. Good way
to get a a man pad basically shot up
your tailpipe there. But the reality is
we can get away with it in this game. So
pepper spray here worthless against
anything that has armor. But if you have
a bunch of infantry in the open, pepper
spray could def just one of these guys
could defeat an entire division. Now the
interesting thing is when we get a
little bit closer to I call it kind of
the NATO size rocket which is kind of
this 80 mm and again it depends on which
American rocket or you know Russian
rocket, British rocket that you're
dealing with but generally the between
60 and 90 mm is kind of the sweet spot
there. Now, this is a slightly bigger
rocket, but um what is fascinating about
it, let's go ahead and lock on the ammo
bunker again, is again all we've done is
add a little bit of extra weight.
Slightly bigger warhead, but look what
happens when we go up against our friend
the ammo bunker this time. Oh,
opportunity shot. I mean, I appreciate I
appreciate the effort. Appreciate the
effort. It was a good trick shot, too.
There it is. All right, take a look. We
scratched the paint.
And that's one of the important things
you have to realize is that if you're
going to be using these little teeny
tiny things, even the 80s, you're not
going to do anything to anything that
has any real armor. Now, the interesting
thing is those are considered the small
rockets of kind of the Russian rocket
family here. Basically, these two here,
you got, like I said, you got your 80,
you've got your tiny little 57. The
standard rockets, like the one that kind
of gets the job done, is when we're
stealing with 122 mm and up. Now, one of
the things you probably noticed is the
fact that these all turn green. That was
weird. Uh, but the reason actually I
know why they turn green. So, the
interesting thing here is that when I
look at this one, you'll notice my 122mm
rocket sounds suspiciously like another
rocket that happens to be fired from a
truck because it's essentially the same
rocket. Again, same limitations of
accuracy, but we have 40 of them, which
allows us to get away with some really,
really fun tricks. So, let's go ahead
and tweak my view a little bit here. I'm
going to try to center it up. I love the
little 3D view, but man, it can make it
a little tricky to line things up. So,
let me show you a fun trick here. So,
I've got everybody in a line here, and
I'm going to select all of these units
at once. Actually, I think there's one
that I'm not allowed to engage. Uh,
which one can I not? I can't shoot at
the runway, I don't think. Oh, nope.
It's not going to let me do that either.
Okay, good enough. We're going to target
the mobile targets. Let's grab my
rockets, and I'm going to go ahead and
allocate uh we'll keep it keep it simple
here. We'll go four rockets each. So,
we're going to go fire off 12 rockets
here. You know, while I'm at it too, we
might as well do inconvenience these
guys, too. Let's see here. Um, you'll
get four because I'm feeling generous.
And you'll also get four because I'm
feeling generous. All right. Now, the
122 rocket. Uh, this is a bigger rocket.
Obviously, it's almost twice the size.
The thing you have to remember about it
is you carry less of them, and it's
actually a less accurate weapon. I know
that sounds silly, but your speeds are
totally different when you're dealing
with things that are a little bit
heavier. Now, for those of you who've
ever tried to use these, like a DCS or
something like that, you're probably
very familiar with the fact that uh when
you pull things like this, you hit some
of them and usually run out of time, you
run out of room. You'll actually see
here that as we're doing our little line
here, we blew the BTR out of the way cuz
we actually hit it. We're going against
the T80. We're barely able to strike it.
Taking our shots against our ammo bunker
on the surface there. You can see we hit
it a couple times. And of course, you
can see our runway here. We struck
several times as a concrete argument
kind of goes ripping by here. Now, if I
open up my guide's eye view, you can see
we did a little bit better than scratch
the paint, but it was also a very, very
clean hit there. And our runway actually
got damaged really, really badly because
runways are so big. You basically can't
miss them with a rocket. And that is one
of the reasons why they opted for even
larger rockets. Now, this is where it
gets really comical. So, the big
rockets, these are your 240s and these
are your 266s. These are big big big big
rockets. And these are your anti-runway
and anti- big building rockets. They're
not really supposed to be used against
ground targets. Like you'll notice I
only carry eight of them here. This guy
here only carries eight of them as well.
Again, 266s are only slightly bigger.
And one of the things I find really
fascinating about these weapons is if
you open them up, they're both going to
be two, let's see here. I believe I
don't want to make a lie out of me here.
Yeah, they're both two nautical mile
weapons with the same general idea. But
the cool thing is this has got a nice
little proxy fuse which makes it just
slightly more accurate. So let's go
ahead and grab one hit wonder and just
kind of show you. And again, this group
here, the 122 concrete argument there,
that is kind of the generic I can do
anything with a rocket kind of a rocket.
These two folks over in the corner,
they're great against big uh soft group
targets, especially if you're in the
open like we are here. These two are
really designed to wreck runways.
They're really designed to wreck
buildings. So, for example, if I grab
one hit wonder here and order him to
attack the ammo bunker, I'll grab OP,
please nerf. And I'll go ahead and order
him to attack the runway. Now, remember,
these weapons were designed. Where you
going, OP?
Did I break something somehow? I'm
pretty famous for that. Ah, I did break
something somehow. Typical.
There we go. Actually, I don't think
he's allowed to engage the runway. Not
allowed to engage the runway. Oh, that's
right. Ah, I can see my mistake right
away. Let's go take a look at our WR
here. Let's go to my 266 rockets. And it
says do not use against What? That's a
little I'm not going to lie, that's
seems a little strange in my mind. Uh,
the reason I find that a little strange
is because that's basically what this
weapon is designed for. Unless, of
course, it's the silly um, which fuse is
this? Which fuse is this? Hang on. I
might be It's a high explosive air
burst. Okay, so that's the fuse. It's
basically designed to blow up an area.
Parked airplanes is the absolute winner.
So, I disregard OP Ply's nerf here
because he's going to disappoint me
because yeah, we're shooting at a runway
with it, but that's not really what it's
supposed to be. That warhead is
specifically designed basically to
explode over an area. All right, one hit
wonder. This is a huge weapon. Look at
this. I can click on this thing. It's so
huge. That gives you an idea. All right,
so you'll see several of our weapons
malfunctioned. We came through. We got a
nice clean hit there. Oh, fly over the
top. We're going to do a little BDA as
we fly over. And you can see how this
chap is like, I'm not firing anything at
that. Are you kidding me, my friend?
It's a runway. It's a runway. Just shoot
the runway. It doesn't matter that you
air burst. There he goes. Look at the
size of this thing.
That's what I'm talking about.
There we go. Fantastic. Looks like we
got some freebies as we went by, too.
All right, let's take a look. So, ammo
bunker, as you can see, um, we did some
damage to it. And again, we barely even
hit it. And when I open up the little
like hit log, you realize I didn't
actually hit it coming over here with
the runway. That's a lot of damage. And
again, if I came by, especially with uh
where is he? Oh, no. No. Where'd he go?
Octop. Yeah, right. That'd be pretty
hilarious. Uh, where are you? Where's
one hit wonder here? Ah, here he is. Oh,
he's out of ammo. Oh well, we'll play
with that in a minute. But what you can
see here is we probably missed a lot. As
a matter of fact, if I go to weapon
endgame here, this one's so nice. I like
this one. You'll notice a couple of them
hit. Uh the 240s mostly missed. And by
missed, 60 ft. And again, that 60 ft is
really good. I've got a really talented
pilot. If we can keep it within 60 ft,
that's not bad. And keep in mind, I'm at
optimum altitude. Now, you're sitting
here going, "Okay, so I I kind of get
the I get the theme. I get it. I get
it." So basically the big rockets used
against ground targets that don't move.
The little rockets um just use them to
absolutely spam anything that's
dangerous that's soft. It's like yeah
basically but one of the things I find
really really interesting about uh
rockets other than like I said the fact
you can't spam them all in one long
salvo at least not right now. They'll
probably change that in the future. But
one of the things I really really get a
kick out of with any rocket is the idea
that you can get a perfect hit if you
get as close to the target as possible.
Now you're sitting there going, "Okay, I
think I know where you're going to go
with that." Yeah, you're right. So,
let's go ahead and grab my favorite uh
OP, please. Actually, we'll grab this
one. One hit wonder. Honestly, I think
is like the best here. I'm going to
order him to go down to minimum
altitude. Now, you're sitting there
going, "Why would you do that?"
Actually, it's too low. Let's do like
500 ft. I think that's enough. Um, let's
go ahead and make that AGL, too, because
we're basically ripping around. I'm also
going to reduce my speed. I'm going to
stack the deck a little bit here. So,
we're going to be very low. We're going
to be very, very slow. And our goal is
to try to do as much damage as we
possibly can on my flyby here. Now, the
interesting thing is because you're
going to be coming in so much lower,
you're going to have less time to
actually fire the weapon. You'll
actually notice as I come down in
altitude that my actual range is
decreasing. Remember a few minutes ago I
was showing you the fact that, you know,
you're coming in when we did high
altitude, we got to drop the whole rack
on them, but we basically missed half
the time. And then the 3,000 ft was more
or less optimum. Well, you'll notice
here when I start getting a little low,
again, we're going minimum fire range
here. We're down to a th00and feet.
We're not very high off the ground here.
He's going to have to use his TFR. He's
going to have less time to fire the
rockets off. So, you can see we got What
do we got here? About 1.6° dive. Bunch
of hits. Bunch of hits. Bam. Bam. Bam.
Bam. He actually got his whole rack off.
I'm I'm pretty impressed there. You get
an A today. You did a nice job. you'll
see it actually worked okay because um
basically what happened is we didn't
have a lot of rockets and we had really
big rockets. But again, if we were
trying to get as many rockets on the
target as we can with like little pepper
spray over there, you would notice that
we'd not have been nearly as successful.
Now, one of the things I was talking
about earlier was the concept of the
guided rockets. Now, some of you say,
"Isn't it a missile?" I'd say, "Don't
tell anybody." But one of the things
that both the east and the west came up
with is realizing that those rockets are
kind of hard to use. And if we just
increase the precision just a little
bit, we can do a lot more damage. So,
one of the things they tried to do
pretty early on is actually use the
lovely Vicor missiles rockets. And these
are pretty cool cuz uh basically what
they are is they're if you want to think
about it another way, they're kind of
data length little line of sight limited
miniature missiles. And they're
absolutely fantastic because you can see
they've got the tandem warheads which
makes them extremely effective against
armored units. And they're also really
really accurate. And if you come down
here, you'll notice my C is 2 m, which
means I'm very unlikely to miss. It is
also a commandguided weapon, which means
we need none of that shenanigans when it
comes to things like using laserg guided
weapons. Now, this is a pretty
interesting weapon, and I had to use it
because you just got to see this thing
in action because it's just so curious.
All right. So, I'm going to grab
everybody. I'm going grab it. Oh, you're
going to be a jerk to me, aren't you?
I'm going to give you get a missile. And
you get two missiles. And you get a
missile. And you get a missile. Now,
this is kind of fun. Now, let me uh go
ahead. Actually, it's a good position.
I'm going to set him to loiter speed
here because if I send them to loiter
speed, he basically has more time to
fake take the shots. Now, check these
little things out. They're little Fisher
Price rockets. But the crazy thing is is
even though the warhead on this thing is
so tiny, the reality is is that each one
of these is so accurate that it almost
doesn't matter. So you can see here we
have the three BTRs basically chilling.
We have one missile and bam, that
creamed one of those BTRs. You got to
imagine this thing just slamming in,
1200 knots, just crashes into the side
of it. Now the crazy thing is even
though these things are so tiny, we've
taken a shot at our bunker. See, notice
we're able to get a few of these off at
a time. Where are you going?
Where are you going?
I guess he just You can't fire me. I
quit. So, of course, as you probably
noticed, until we turned away and
basically lost the ability to take our
shot there, that we were able to
basically get direct hits, which made
them even more effective. So, as we've
seen, rockets are effective weapons.
Little rockets, um, basically get down
3,000 ft is kind of the sweet spot.
Shoot as many of them as you can. The
bigger rockets, again, the 3,000 ft is
pretty optimum. If you go up a little
bit higher if you're using guided
weapons, you can go a little bit lower
if you're using less of them and you
want more of a kick.