# C: MO - Setting up a Carrier Battlegroup and Combat Air Patrol
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E6uDwCxeI9M
Video ID: E6uDwCxeI9M

Wait, hold on. Sorry about that. In the
year 2008, the seas were troubled by
strange shadows. Some whispered of
submarines gliding unseen beneath the
blue. Not monsters of the imagination,
but machines of steel and quiet purpose.
Hello everyone. In today's video, what
we're going to be doing is I'm manually
assembling a carrier battle group and uh
setting up some combat air patrols. all
kind of set up to make things a little
bit easier for those of you who are kind
of wondering is there a baseline for
this and we'll go ahead and do that now.
So, we have here is a group of different
ships and of course we also have a
carrier airwing and we need to put them
to good use here. We've been assigned to
basically head off to Syria here and
just kind of keep an eye on things and
make sure there no air threats or
subsurface threats and all that other
good stuff and of course threat threat
threats. So, what we're going to do is
we're going to manually build a carrier
battle group. Now, we have a couple
different pieces here at our disposal.
Of course, we have the Shad Diggov. Uh
we have ourselves the 4B and of course
the Aquit. Along with that, we have a
support ship, the Durance, which I'm
going to pronounce wrong every single
time like most things that I try to
pronounce, but that's okay. So, how do
we build a carrier group out of this?
Well, the first things first is we need
to actually get everybody where they
need to go. So, I'm going to grab this
group of ships here. I'm going to go and
press the G key. Now, you probably
notice there's this little submarine. Of
course, we don't have a Nautilus. be the
Juva if we were actually going to do
something like this. But that's okay
because um you know why not? But we're
going to take this one. We're actually
going to send him kind of early to our
destination there and just kind of do
one of those. And realistically, we
could be fiddling with all sorts of
stuff with like groups and areas and
stuff, but the reality is he's going to
do just fine on his way over there. And
of course, because I'm so darn deep, I
can just basically crank his speed up
and not really worry about people
listening. Now, the group itself, uh, we
have to get kind of serious here because
we need to fiddle with this formation
quite a bit to make it work a little bit
better for us. First of all, our pivot
point, also known as the leader, will be
our friend, the shuga. And what we're
going to do with this one is basically
set up a defensive barrier. And there's
a couple different pieces to defensive
barriers. There's what they call the
anti-surface warfare side, there's the
anti-air war side, and of course,
there's the anti- subsurface side,
depending on the natures of the threats
in the actual war. Now, fortunately for
us, we only have two destroyers here,
which makes us a little bit tougher.
Luckily, the Horizon here does a great
job at anti air warfare. And of course,
luckily for us, the Aquatane does a
really nice job with anti- subsurface
warfare. So, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to go ahead and take our lovely
horizon here. I'm basically going to
order to get about 10 nautical miles in
front of our friend, the Shugo. So, if I
go about to here, again, about 10 miles
is kind of the sweet spot. You could
even bring it into like seven and a half
for those you like to kind of do the
half kind of a thing. So that's going to
be about right there. So what I'm going
to do is grab this one. I'll go back to
our group. We're going to go ahead and
click on place member. And you can see
we have a relative bearing or we have a
fixed bearing. This is obviously going
to be a relative bearing. So I can go
ahead and hit that one and go ahead and
click on the ground right where I want
it to be, which like I said is about 10
miles. So this is going to order the
horizon to go power off and go ripping
over there as fast as he can. Good. I'm
also slightly off center here, but
that's okay. Now, our anti-ubmarine
warfare is going to be a little bit
further out. And again, depending on the
axis threat since we're going to be
transiting to Syria, our threat
theoretically is going to be in front of
us. Now, there's a lot of different
philosophies on how to do this depending
on the nature of this. Generally, what
you do is you have a pair of destroyers
doing anti-ubmarine warfare. We're not
going to have that luxury, so we're
basically going to have to kind of keep
that in mind when we do that. But
generally with anti-ubmarine warfare,
you're looking for about 15 to 20
nautical miles away. So, what I'm going
to do is I'm going to glove our
wonderful ship here. We're going to do a
relative bearing again. And again, if we
come up here, this is about 29 nautical
miles. Is way too far. About 15. And I'm
going to put it slightly off center
right there. Just like that. And the
nice thing about putting things off
center is people doing the math when
they're doing like submarine attacks and
stuff like that. They see the ship in
the front, assume everybody's in a line.
When you put them slightly off the line,
it confuses them to death. Now, of
course, we have to deal with our good
friend here, the Guts, which I said I
would mispronounced 10 times. This thing
basically chills right next to the
carrier. That's really its only defense
is the carrier's air defense. The nice
thing, too, is um you know, we have some
20 mm cannon. Now, like it's not going
to do that much for us. So, what I'm
going to do is I'm going to do a
relative bearing and basically park it
right here, which is going to be I think
that's about 2 and a half mile. It's
about a mile. That's fine. That'll do
the deed. Of course, if the carrier
itself needs to rearm, refuel, it has
got a ship basically to get us going.
Now, our submarine is already on the
way. He's going to be choo chewing way,
way, way off there. here. And believe it
or not, he actually has really, really
good ears. So, it's going to make it
pretty easy. So, this group's going to
get together. What I like to do when I'm
kind of assembling a group is I kind of
like to give them a gentle destination
so they sort of all cut each other off
cuz it's going to take them some time to
kind of get into position. One of the
tricks to this though is remembering
that it's going to take them time to
form up. So, what you really want to do
here is you want to slow them down
during this forming up sort of stage
here. We'll make about 10 knots here. We
only need to do steerage or anything
like that. But, it is important that
these other vessels do get into
position. Now, if I bring up the other
vessel itself real quick just by
clicking on him, you can see he's going
pretty darn Actually, he's making good
time. My bad. He's ripping here, which
is what we want. As a matter of fact, if
I pop this up, you'll notice here that I
can set sprint and drift if I wanted to,
just for the purposes of basically
getting them going quicker. But, um,
this is perfectly fine. And they're
going to come snapping around and
basically line ourselves up. And then
we're going to be ready for the actual
transit into the danger zone, so to
speak. All right, let's go ahead and
grab this. I'm going to do an
acceleration waypoint. And then we're
going to stay kind of away from Cyprus
and make our way that way. But maybe my
acceleration way point. That's just a
quick slang term for one that we're
going to change our speed here. So we'll
pop up to cruise speed when we get
there. We'll stay at this kind of like
10 knot semi steerage here. And of
course this guy's got to go faster than
us no matter what. He's basically going
to look in the water for any subs or
anything like that. Hey, I just found
Mew or is that Atlantis? I don't know
which one that is. All right, so that's
taken care of. Let's get our combat air
patrol going. Now, the combat air patrol
relatively straightforward. The big
thing again is threat access, but uh
first thing we need to do is establish
our awax coverage. So, what I'm going to
do is I'm going to measure out about uh
usually it depends kind of on the
situation here. Usually, it's half the
distance of your longest awax. So, I'm
sorry cap. Generally, my cap is going to
be about 150 mi out, which is about
here, which puts our awok here. Well,
wwax, it's a new one. And what I like to
do again is I like to offset it
slightly, just a little bit over again.
Try to stay clear of Cypress there. So,
I'm going to come down here. I'm going
to add a waypoint. Uh, this is going to
be a fixed waypoint relative to our
carrier group. So, I'm going to go ahead
and call this um awax loop. And what
some people do is they'll actually loop
the Awax kind of along here. I don't
think that's a bad idea. I'm just going
to be lazy and make them do a power
donut because well, keep it simple,
right? Let's see. Mission reference
points. We're going to do a fixed
reference point right there. Click on
the carrier group. Boop. And that's
going to be awesome. Let's go ahead and
get that guy going.
Head
to our support. Looks good. Let's grab
our Awax. Who do we have today? We have
IL. We have Suku and Sua.
That's fantastic. All right, let's go
top that down there real quick. Uh,
we're going to say one unit at a time,
and we're going to make sure they turn
on the radar when they get there. That's
just a little tiny thing, but that's
okay. MCON settings, we're just going to
adjust it to allow radar because
obviously we need that. And of course,
uh, they should be able to come back and
forth pretty effectively. Now, if we
wanted to, we could have them go out and
come back. I don't think that's
necessary. I think it's perfectly fine
to do the way we did it. And again,
we've got a wax loop. It's just one
point. It's continuous loop. If you
want, it'll work perfectly fine. All
right, that's all set. So, they're going
to come take off there. Again, that's
usually the first thing I launch. If you
want to cheat a little, you can actually
come in here real quick and you can
actually grab one of them. like this one
for example, the hook and I just launch
him individually and he becomes like the
designated first awax plane and it just
kind of makes it easier. All right,
let's get our cap ready. So there's
three layers to cap. There's the cap
that deals with the stuff that's far
away. Theoretically, we should get that
first. You've got the inner cap, which
is usually also known as your flank cap.
And then of course you've got your oh my
god, something got through. I just get
in the air cap. That's your 5minute cap,
for example. So let's get the first one
set up. Uh we're going to assume that
the we're going to, like I said, we're
going to try to stay out of Cypus if we
can help it. So, I'm going to go ahead
and get ourselves a little mission here.
Like I said, about 150 is a pretty good
distance here. Right about there. Looks
good to me. That looks good to me. And
that's awesome. I'm going to go ahead
and set this to be a fixed cap.
Naturally, we have to shrink it. So,
when we get closer to Syria, we're not
flying over Syria.
That could be a problem. So, we'll put
this as a fixed bearing because again,
the thread axis is going to be over
here. And this is going to be kind of
cap region one if you want to think
about it. All right. Uh, so one of the
things we could do too is if we wanted
to make this a little bit more effective
is we could basically create a
prosecution zone for them as well. As a
matter of fact, we'll do that. But
before we do that, let's get the cap
going. Uh, we'll call this far cap
patrol a and let's go ahead
fail polygon. Oh no, my polygon has
failed. How about now?
Done that a few times, trust me. All
right, let's get some raf. Uh, again, I
didn't give them funny French names this
time. But we're going to grab this
group. They're going to be our first
group here. And of course, uh we're
going to try to keep two at a time.
Movement with an area of flight size
two. Uh they're going to rip out there.
Cap is usually a slightly lower altitude
than uh you would expect. A lot of
people think of cap as maximum altitude
for maximum loiter, but you actually
want to go a little bit lower just to
get that radar closer to the ground,
which makes it easier to pick up things
like submarine launch cruise missiles
and stuff. So, I'm actually going to
reduce our altitude here to 25,000 ft.
Even though it's going to cost me a
little bit of range, it's it's kind of
worth it. So, that's good to go. Let's
set up our nice little prosecution zone.
So, the prosecution zone is basically
anything in here. Go ahead and start
blasting. And I'll go ahead and make
this a fairly large prosecution zone.
There we go. And again, we're going to
have multiple layers to our cap here,
which makes this a little bit easier.
So, that's my prosecution zone. Um,
basically, anything in here is what
we're going to blast. So, I'm going to
go back to my mission. Go back to our
friends far. That's how you spell far
capital cap. It's far leaka.
All right, let's go to prosecution area.
We'll add all points in the map. And you
can see that is good to go. Although for
some reason, let's see if I can figure
out what did I did wrong here. Select.
Ah, much better. So, you can see this
will be our um prosecution zone here.
So, I'm just going to validate that.
Checks. Uh, let's see. Inside
prosecution area, that's fine. I can
turn that on. It's not that big of a
deal. Outside patrol area, we do want
that. Um, within weapons range, we do
want that. But keep in mind, they're
only going to shoot things that are in
this area, which is perfectly fine for
us. We really don't want them to go to
Israel cuz um you know, like I I don't
it's a lot, but again, we'd have to play
with this, but that's fine. All right,
so that group is all set. That's going
to be our far cap. And now what we're
going to do is we're going to do the
midcap, aka the flank cap. This is
really to kind of guard the sides that
are a little bit closer to us. And the
problem with this one, as you're going
to kind of see in a second, is it's a
very awkward shape when you have Cypress
right there. But, uh, we're going to
make it work. I'm going to go ahead and
borrow this one right here. And one of
the things we can do is we can actually
build one of these shapes. This is going
to look really, really ugly, by the way.
All right. Ew, ew, ew. This is going to
get so ugly.
And uh yes, one of the things you did
observe is the fact that I forgot to set
these way points to be fixed bearing.
So, I've actually got to go back. Oh,
no. See, I did it on that one. I didn't
do it the other one. Let me fix that
real fast. This whole area has to move
with the carrier. So, I'm going to do
the same thing I did before. Uh let's
see. fixed points. Uh, we went fixed.
Why am I being so blind? Ah, I was
right.
Tada. Actually, this is fine. That one
can totally be that way, too. All right.
So, we're going to grab this one here.
These four are going to be my flankers
here. We'll do a fixed point to our
carrier group. Looks nice. And we'll
grab all these goofy ones down, I guess.
You know, I'm just going to roll with
this shape here because why not?
Let's make those all fixed as well.
All right. And we're good to go. Woo.
This is going to be a pain in the butt
in a second, but you know, it's part of
the fun. Part of the fun. Let's go stick
that right there. The Awax loop is now
part of the fun as well. I'm perfectly
fine with that as well. And we're good
to go. Fantastic. Okay, so now we need
to deselect everything. So, let's come
up here real fast. Deselect all way
points. Let's grab this one. And then we
need to somehow grab that one. Uh, let's
see here. One of the problems is you
can't do something like this. See how
this is split? Apparently, I missed one.
Uh, let's see here. Fix, fix, fix, fix,
fix, fixed. I'm just being blind today.
Sorry. All right, that looks good to me.
So, we've got the group to the north for
the north flank, and we have the group
to the south for kind of the south flank
here. Problem is, if we want to merge
these two groups, we're actually going
to have to make a two more sets of way
points. I did say this was going to be a
pain. And that's going to be like that.
And that's going to be like that. This
polygon is going to look horrifying. I
can't wait. All right, fix
checky checky check for you. Riggity
wreck. All right, watch this. So, we're
going to do a flank cap. This is going
to be our group here that's going to
keep an eye on things on the side.
That's okay. I know the it's going to be
an awful polygon. Oh boy.
I had a feeling it was going to be
pretty rough. All right, let me fix
this. Tada.
All right, that's all fixed. That was
ugly. But, as you can see, I got it all
nice and shaped up. It's now a good good
cap shape there. All right, let's go
ahead and grab my next units here. Uh,
this is going to be um 12 float. Toss
them in there like that. We're going to
do the same basic thing we did before.
Again, keep that station altitude a
little depressed so you get better reach
for radar. I'm not going to set up a
prosecution area for these. These folks
know what to do when they get there.
Kind of a thing like that. All right,
that looks good to me. That looks good
to me. Good, good, good. Flight size two
1/3 rule. Set city set. Whoa. Okay, so
now what we're going to do is we're
going to get I kind I call it the alert
status five group. And that's the people
who are going to basically be chilling
on the deck ready for emergencies. Now,
one of the things you can do, of course,
is you can set up an opportunity to
intercept mission around the carrier. I
don't want to do that because as soon as
they see a red dot appear on the screen,
they're going to panic and go. We don't
necessarily want that for this
particular mission. As obnoxious as it's
going to be, I'm just going to leave
them on the deck and if I need them, I
will manually launch them, especially if
it's an operation this small. Okay,
ready to launch some airplanes? Cuz I
certainly am not. Let's do it. So, I'm
going to go and speed up time here. I'm
actually going to deselect everything.
You got to kind of watch the party here.
This is going to this is going to get a
little silly in a few seconds here. All
right. And what it should do is I'll
grab tac view real fast now that I fixed
some of the boo boos that I was doing
earlier. So glad they fixed that bug
with the invisible units. There they go.
&gt;&gt; I'll let you enjoy the sound effects.
That's so much fun.
All right, everybody's off. Now, one of
the things that uh the French Navy
suffers from, actually, I I'll take a
step back. All navies suffer from is the
fact that carrier planes since the
beginning of carrier planes have always
struggled with range. It's it's just
unfortunately it's just the nature of
carrier aviation in general is range is
always going to be an issue kind of a
thing. So, even though I have the
ability to send these guys way way way
out there, the problem is they're only
going to be able to hang out here for
about 45 minutes before the next group
sends. Now, if you do the math on this
real quick, you'll recognize the fact
that we're going to run out of fuel on
these before the next group is even
ready. Uh, that's kind of the nature of
the beast. That's why we're only
launching two planes at a time. But you
can see my lovely, lovely aircraft here,
my feeds over there. You can see my Awax
planes doing a glorious job of keeping
an eye on everything. You can see can
see deep into Syria. And he's giving us
plenty of warning for our good friends
here to kind of cause some trouble.
Now, the cool thing here, too, uhoh. Oh,
wait a minute. Oh, the trouble. The
trouble. Uh oh. We've got ourselves some
trouble right away. What is this? Uh MiG
23 is uh heading right for us. Now, just
for the record, a MiG 23 would uh
definitely struggle to make that flight
and get back, but uh this is going to be
a problem for us. Now, the nice thing is
because we've set everything up so
carefully. Now, watch what happens. So,
our cap flight here is doing its job.
It's cruising around back and forth. And
notice it is not engaging these angry
MC23s yet because it has not actually
entered into our prosecution zone. Now
watch what happens the moment one of
these aircraft accidentally. So there it
goes. Oh no. Look at him go. Look at him
go.
And I think that's the end of that. Real
fast. You better run. Oh, we're fed.
We're fed.
Stop shooting at maximum range.
And now we've accidentally got ourselves
a dog fight because somebody forgot to
set the mag range on things correctly.
And that's the end of that.
But you can see that it works absolutely
perfect for those kind of situations.
All right, that was uhoh. Oh jeez, what
is going on today? It's just stuff
coming out of everywhere. Now, this is
kind of an interesting problem. Um, all
of our aircraft were basically optimized
for the purposes of uh doing combat air
patrol. We don't really have anything
optimized for anti-surface warfare, as
weird as that sounds. Now, the cool
thing here is we have a pretty darn good
idea of what kind of vessel this is. But
if we actually were to take a look at
our CBG, one of the things you're going
to notice is we have all these beautiful
weapons, including everybody's favorite
exoset, Block 2. Gosh, I love that
vessel. So, what we're going to do here
is um I'm pretty suspicious about this
guy. You know, if we wanted to, of
course, we could send analyst to go take
a look. And without knowing the range of
this particular one other than the fact
it's obviously a patrol craft and if I
do the math on it, you can see that
there's no way the university is going
to get there. But like what's the fun in
that if I can't fire an exo set like
this? I never get to use these things.
So like it's it's just fun for me. All
right, Nixie. I definitely don't want
that sh to go. Nope, I do not want that
one. Oh, look at that exite. Oh, I've
got block threes. Fire.
Oh, this is so rude. This guy's not even
going to know he got shot at. Now, the
Exo set, of course, is a very unique uh
anti-hship missile because it is one of
the few anti-ship missiles that have
actually done a lot of damage to ships
over the years. You know, we make all
these wonderful weapons, but never
really get a chance to try them. You can
see here our ref is just kind of
cruising around. Uh-oh. Uh-oh. Uhoh.
Again, there's no way this patrol craft
would have come out this far. This would
be like I like you. You're lost, my
friend. You are very very very lost.
Also surprise exoset.
So the one thing I did not do is a
subsurface threat. And the reality is is
there was no subsurface threat to worry
about too much for these kinds of
things. But if we did have a subsurface
threat, we'd be usually our helicopters
and basically keeping them about the
same range as everything else. But if
you actually look here, you can see very
very carefully how everybody kind of
fanned out to the correct size and shape
that they're required to do and
everything is running great. Enjoy.