# Command Modern Operations Livestream - All about carriers
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eqYjCWRLeRM
Video ID: eqYjCWRLeRM

Hello everyone. Welcome to one of our
Command live streams. A few weeks ago, I
think it was about 3 weeks ago or so, we
did a nice little live stream basically
kind of giving you some overviews of you
know, what Command Modern Operations is
all about and some of the different
features that are sort of contained
within. Uh the goal for today, of
course, is to kind of continue on that
theme to give you a sort of as many
different perspectives on all these
different things that you can do in
Command, but we're going to be actually
having a stronger naval focus today so
people can kind of see that aspect of
the game as well. So you can kind of
understand, again, what you're getting
yourself into if you're interested in
the game. So my theme, of course, I
chose to go with aircraft carriers as
well as sort of a naval approach. The
reason being is, you know, they're kind
of big juicy targets and they're easy to
kill and of course, um you know, they're
kind of the iconic piece when people
think of the Navy. Of course, when I
think of the Navy, I think of a
different part of the Navy, but I'll use
them as a demonstrator a little bit
later on. So what I've done, of course,
for the purposes of this uh live stream
here and again, I'm very flexible as far
as people in the chat. If there's
something specific you'd like to see,
think of it as like, you know, this is
my opportunity to kind of share my
expertise with this game for anybody
who's interested in it if there's
something specific you'd like to kind of
check out. But what I've done is I've
basically got the UK. I've all loaded up
with a bunch of interesting targets uh
for things to just kind of take big
shots at. And of course, we've got
ourselves a really, really basic kind of
a carrier group and then we're going to
be sort of playing with sort of the
different options as we go and sort of
kind of seeing how you can approach
different ways, you know, time on
target, attacks, stuff like that.
So our carrier today, of course, we're
dealing with the Enterprise. I'm sorry,
this is the Nimitz this time. Normally I
use the Big E, but I chose the Nimitz.
Uh this is actually not my favorite kind
of aircraft carrier. My favorite kind of
aircraft carrier, if you can get your
hands on one, not that people usually
own these things, are actually the older
ones, which would be your like
Casablanca class, where basically they
took a transport ship and put a carrier
deck on it and said, "Go and escort
carrier. Go." And now the cool thing
with carriers like that, of course,
where you know, they're just simple.
They basically had a crew, a squadron,
maybe two squadrons kind of a thing and
that's all it was and you basically had
a specific mission. Today's carriers are
insane. Now, when I just open this thing
up, let me grab the database entry real
quickly here. Of course, when I do it,
I've got multiple monitors, so it tries
to jump on another one kind of a piece.
Uh the great thing about the database
entry here is it's actually going to
tell you a lot about what to expect. And
now people always ask me, "How do you
know what kind of aircraft are going to
be on a specific like how many are there
actually going to be?" And the reality
is if you actually come in here, you're
going to notice that they actually give
you a hint as to what they expect. Now,
one of the great things about Command
Modern Operations, other than the fact
that it would break all this down for
you kind of a thing, is you can actually
use that information coupled with what
you already know about the time period.
For example, I chose August 15th of
1985, which was basically a little while
ago. I wasn't alive in 1985, believe it
or not. But one of the things we can do
is we can use that information. So if I
were to, for example, go over to the CG
49, press control F6, I would know if
I'm doing helicopters for this
particular cruiser. I could go down here
and try to identify something that's
roughly 1985, 1984. And of course, it's
going to be the SH-2 because because
science. Go ahead and grab that real
quickly. We're just going to go ahead
and equip it real fast for an
anti-submarine warfare sort of a mission
here, keeping things relatively simple
in that kind of a sense. I believe I did
not give this guy I don't The kid is uh
looking pretty chill there. By the way,
if you're ever wondering what a
particular unit can actually carry, if
you were to actually go up to the unit's
database entry,
scrolling down a bit, what they'll
actually have is this whole thing on
facilities. Let's go down here. You can
see we have a medium aircraft facility,
which means we can get the bigger we can
do an SH-60 on this, which is actually
pretty cool. So if I actually come in
here, we can do
uh I'll do a dash 60. I think that's
going to be the easiest way to look at
it. And of course, we have all the
MH-60s and everything like that. These
are much newer helicopters though. So I
think I might be way out of line here.
Yeah, I'm way out of line here. Too bad,
it's going to be an SH-2.
It's just kind of the way it works. Grab
a couple more of those. Slap them again,
we're just throwing some torpedoes on
there. You will see why in a minute kind
of a thing. We'll throw some uh Mark
46s. Those are the nice ones too, so I
like that. So we have our little carrier
battle group here. Of course, got the
carrier, we've got the AO chilling in
the back. And a couple things I've done
right away for my particular carrier
battle group and this is true for
whether you're a scenario designer or,
you know, just kind of playing in
general, is you always want to align
your escorts in the direction you expect
to be attacked. You know, a lot of
people think, "Oh, we can take all of my
escorts and basically concentrate them
in one zone." That's true, but on the
downside to that, of course, now is
you're very obvious targets. Now, let me
show you what I mean by that. So I'm
actually going to switch to the other
team for a second here and then I'll go
ahead and save our scenario just in case
something comes up. I'm going to
unpause.
And you're going to notice that on my
Tu-95s, I got a Shackleton and a Tu-95
here. Immediately picks up a couple
ships. And again, the key to detection
anytime in the modern era is if they
don't know you're there, they can't
attack you. Of course, in the modern
era, we have things like you know,
basically satellites that have synthetic
aperture radar that can see through
clouds and it's it's not that it's
hopeless, but it's kind of vastly more
challenging to try to conceal yourself
at sea than it was at one point cuz
literally if you exist, they can
probably find you.
So we're of course detecting again,
Tu-95 is my mind, kind of the
archetypical kind of eye enemy here. And
what you probably observe is we
immediately pick up three different
targets here right now. We don't know a
lot about these targets because none of
these targets here are actually
emitting, which is to our advantage. But
what you probably observe here is that
our bear is not necessarily picking up
the more interesting target. As a matter
of fact, if I press control V here,
you'll notice it's completely missing
the Nimitz. Now you're sitting there
going, "Well, that doesn't make any
sense. The Nimitz is the biggest target
there is, you know." If I grab my bear,
for example, let's go back to it real
fast. You'll see that it's well within
range. But the reason it can't actually
see the Nimitz is because it's being
shadowed by our lovely escort there. So
when I'm trying to predict which one of
these targets looks to be the one that I
want to launch my missiles at, I'm
actually at a pretty big disadvantage
here because I don't necessarily know
what to actually target.
That being said, with a little bit of
time, I could probably, of course, I
could get a little bit closer. So if I
were to actually grab this guy bear real
fast, let's uh reduce my angles just a
tiny bit here. Let's put him right here.
You'll notice that that advantage is uh
no longer going to apply because now
instead of looking at the targets from
the side, we're now looking at them at
an oblique, which now enables us to kind
of spot things.
Now, without any knowledge whatsoever of
carrier battle groups, can you predict
which one of these is going to be a most
likely aircraft carrier? And of course,
you would say this is probably not going
to be it on account of the fact why
would you chill so far out front? This
is actually a really fun place to put a
carrier because people would never
expect us to do that. But again,
remember this guy's got cameras and once
he gets close enough, it's not going to
matter anyway. Yeah, you take a look at
these three. These are probably going to
be one of our options here. Optionally,
this could definitely be our carrier.
This could definitely be our carrier.
There's a little bit misdirection.
Probably not our carrier. But again,
because of that format that people put
themselves in, it basically opens them
up to that sort of an attack and that's
sort of one of the things that we're
going to be looking out for as we
explore some of these different options
in front of us. So let's switch back to
the other side real fast and we'll
actually grab these guys and put them
into a group.
Now when you put them into a group, one
of the things you kind of got to watch
out for, especially in Command, and this
is us We're just one of those things is
after they're in a group, they actually
have a specific formation they're in
right now. Now if I click on my unit
here and go to the formation editor,
you'll observe that all the different
elements of this particular group here
has its own kind of position. And if I
actually click on them, you're going to
see here that it says R next to it.
You're sitting there going, "What is the
R mean?" The R means relative. That
means that our carrier here, if he
starts to turn, this entire formation is
going to turn with him, which now means
that all of our beautiful escorts, which
aren't really in the axis of danger
here, are now facing the wrong
direction.
So what we're going to do is we're
actually going to change this and set
this to a fixed bearing. So that way um
when they do start turning, they don't
lose their current position. Now, one of
the cool things you can do, by the way,
is if you want to have a little bit of
fun, you can actually come in here and
design a specific formation. The upside
downside to that, of course, is if
you're in the editor here like I am, you
can actually come in here and tweak
these things if that's something that
you desire to do. Now this would be a
really fun, tough, challenging video for
me to work out. And to be honest, this
is a Visual C# application waiting to
happen. Maybe I'll do it next week if
I'm excited kind of a thing. All right,
so let's grab the kid here. Uh he's in a
great position. I like that. I'm just
going to set him to a fixed bearing. I'm
just going to click right where he is.
I'm fine with that. We're going to grab
this guy. We're going to set him to a
fixed bearing as well. I'm just going to
set that right there. AO uh AO. And
again, I'm not worried about that too
much cuz it's not going to be that big
of a deal.
Ideally, the AO This is going to sound
insane, but I'm actually going to put
him on the other side of the carrier.
And again, the uh nah, nah, makes no
sense. Uh the big thing here is we want
to have some misdirection. So again,
I'll set him to a different spot. So
he's at my fake carrier if you want to
think about it. We'll grab the Knox and
we'll go ahead and make him a fixed
bearing as well. I'm going to pop that
right down there. And I think I got
everyone. This guy, our lead, he doesn't
have a fixed bearing cuz he's going to
do what he wants. So I'm going to get
this one going and I kind of do one of
these sort of things. Now an interesting
thing that Command does not simulate,
not yet, is wind direction. Now you're
saying, "Oh, why does that even matter?"
Well, one of the challenges of carriers,
of course, is you have to go fast enough
to launch aircraft off of them. So
unfortunately for us in Command, we
don't have that actual capability. So I
can actually stop the ship and launch
100 ships and recover 100 not ships,
airplanes. I could do ships too if I
wanted. But I could launch a ton of
aircraft without moving. So that
tactical problem/consideration
is just not a thing. You know, we'd have
to get up to flank, which would make us
really, really loud for incoming
weapons. So it's just kind of one of
those pieces.
Another big question uh when we're
dealing with carriers is who turns the
radar on? So if we switch back over to
the other side real fast, let's go ahead
and uh dump all these and go back to our
original scenario. Give it a few
minutes. Of course, now that everybody's
starting to move around a little bit,
it's going to be a little bit easier to
start identifying where they are, what
their average speeds are and things like
that. So it's going to be easier to
identify our biggest guy, who's going to
be basically There's our carrier right
there if you want to think about it. So
as this is starting to orient itself,
you know, we can discover quite a bit
more information as far as where we're
going to take our specific shot. Now of
course, uh you can see I have my row of
submarines ready to do the deed in a few
minutes here. By the way, submarines are
fantastic, fantastic tools and you'll
see what I mean when we get a little bit
closer to that point. But um what you'll
see here is just how obvious the shake
of the formation is going to be tipping
its hand as to what I should be
launching my missiles at. Now, a really,
really good player, keep in mind, we're
going to have multiplayer in Command
pretty soon. So, people are going to
have to start thinking in terms of this
in order to create some misdirection to
make it less obvious, um, which one's
which. So, when we do fire, we kind of
know which one not to fire at, sort of a
thing like that. So, what we're going to
do is we're going to switch back over
here one more time to our blue side.
We're going to grab this and we're going
to create a couple missions to sort of
keep this carrier protected. Now,
depending on uh what it is, we're in
peacetime or at wartime, you're going to
have some different stuff as far as
doctrine goes. Easiest thing I like to
do is control right click. I'm going to
add an area. And what I like to do is I
can just move my mouse on the screen
here and you can see that I'm about 100
nautical miles away. And all I can do is
I can actually just drag myself a box
and do do the best I can to try to box
it optimally. It's going to ask me do
you want to create a zone? Sure, I'm
going to create a zone here. I'm going
to call this CAP. I'm going to press the
OK button.
One thing I'm going to do now is I'm
going to take these little uh reference
points here, go up here, and I'm
actually going to make them so that they
follow the carrier. And I'm going to you
could do rotating bearing if you're a
silly person. Everybody's different.
Some people make this a perfect circle.
I just I've never really needed to do
that. Fixed bearing just like that. Now,
what a lot of people will actually do is
they'll design in such a way so as this
moves, it actually will rotate to have a
different face or like a thick section
to it. I don't feel the need cuz I mean
theoretically, there's nothing stopping
me from doing this if I expect all this
stuff to be coming from the UK there,
but it's basically fine kind of the way
it is, but these will move on. So, I'm
going to deselect all those. Of course,
it's like everybody else. So, go ahead
and add a couple more reference points
here. And uh the big thing with this one
is uh this is where your AWACS is going
to go. And uh this is important cuz this
is also going to be my support track.
And again, I'm going to protect them cuz
if I lose my AWACS, that means I have to
turn on my actual radars here. So, what
I'm going to do is I'm going to come up
here and again, we're going to do the
exact same thing. I love the fact you
can change colors and stuff now. These
are all things that are in the PE
version of Command that I never had
access to before. Control F11, I'm going
to go ahead and say uh I'll call it
AWACS track.
And all we're doing here is they're
providing us with a little bit of
protection on kind of that side of
things. I'll press OK. Looks pretty good
to me. And then of course, I have my
handy dandy AWACS. I have two of them,
which of course, and neither one of them
are ready, which is perfectly fine.
We're just going to cheat a little bit
here. Do one of those things. They were
ready before, I swear. Grab those two
and of course, we're just going to
assign them over to the mission. I'm
going to disable multi-mission here cuz
I just don't need any distractions. Go
to the mission settings. I just need
them disabled. Just keep one on at a
time. And then one of the interesting
things you can do here is you can make
sure that active emissions only on
station. Upside of this uh means you're
not going to have uh the easy detection
of your AWACS early. Downside of this of
course is you have no radar coverage
until it gets into position. So, uh be
be mindful of this kind of thing. In
this case, I'm actually going to leave
it on. Watch out though, it is going to
require active MCON for this to work at
all. So, we have to make sure we go back
over here and we have to make sure we
actually turn the radar on. If we don't
turn the radar on, our AWACS just sits
there and goes, "Hey guys, what's up?"
Kind of one of those sort of a thing
like that.
Now, as we're taking a few moments here
to take a look at my actual air group
here, you'll notice that my Sea Sprites,
a couple different versions of my Sea
Sprites. Notice they're on multiple
ships here, but you can actually summon
them from different ships at the same
time. Also notice the presence of my
Phantoms. So, we've got the Greyhounds,
we have the F-14s, the A-6s, the KA-6s,
and of course uh the E-2s there, which
are super duper helpful. Next thing we
can do of course is we can get our air
refueling track going. I'm not actually
going to do a refueling track yet. And
the reason being is I haven't actually
got my strike together, you know. You'll
see what I mean once we get to that
particular point. So, what I will do
though is unpause and I'll kind of fast
forward time a little bit. And again,
this is in my mind sort of uh your
initial operational stuff that you're
going to be doing now pretty much
regardless, you know. This is basically
doctrine. Now, watch what happens here.
So, our AWACS guy is going to sneak up
here, Spad number two. Nice touch, by
the way. He's going to get into that
little track and basically, he's going
to follow us. And now, he's going to be
providing us with that really, really
tasty radar coverage. Notice this is an
older AWACS though. So, our maximum
range here is about 230 nautical miles,
which is plenty enough to cover this
entire massive sphere that we're
basically going to be using for our CAP.
A lot of times uh people will ask me the
question, you know, do you want to throw
like 50 airplanes into CAP? Do you want
to put two airplanes in CAP? And it
really it depends on what you expect,
you know. It's like everything in
combat. We don't know what to expect.
You know, today's operation basically,
our good folks over at uh let's see
here. I think we're Lakenheath and I
think the other one is Alconbury.
Basically, the DAC'd people are going to
help us out so we uh we can dent up a
bunch of targets at their airfields,
kind of a thing like that. So, we can
expect them probably not to come up and
say hello, but we do need some CAP going
on.
So, I'm going to go back to my crew
here. I'm just going to keep this
relatively simple. I'll grab Of course,
we have the choice between the Ss or the
14s. I mean, come on, which one are we
going to pick? And the big thing you
need to keep in mind, especially if
you're scenario designers, is not all
aircraft are available at all time. As a
matter of fact, if we're dealing with
F-14s and this is peacetime, you'd be
lucky if you have, I don't know, six of
these out of the 18 available at any
given time. If you're looking for a
general rule, generally a third of them
are not available, a third of them are
in maintenance, and a third of them are
pretty much ready to go. 1 2 3 4 5 6.
So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to
mark them as maintenance. Uh people who
are new to this game of course say, "Why
would you flag a plane maintenance if
you're playing single player?" Uh you're
not. You wouldn't do this. This is the
mission editor only. And then of course,
what we do is we come in here and define
what we want everything else to be. Now,
we're going to assume that we have a
relatively standard uh BARCAP here. So,
a heavy BARCAP is a little ridiculous.
That's four AIM-54s. These things, as
you see, will not do much damage. It'll
actually surprise you there. But it's
better than this where you basically
have a single one of these. And again, I
like I like the light plus. What do you
get? You get one more. And of course, if
you're doing peacetime BARCAP, check
this out. You have yourself one AIM-54,
which isn't going to do much for us if
we get ganked. One thing worth noting
though, and this is another one of those
things that surprise people with Command
and operations in general, is you have
to think about how long we're going to
spend at CAP here. Notice by the way,
150 nautical miles is the standard, but
we chose 100 miles. Haha, math. But the
big thing we have to keep in mind here
is if we get a really, really, really
heavy plane, we're not going to be
having as much time in the air to
actually do anything. So, people love
grabbing this heavy one and say, "Haha,
that'll keep us protected. Hahaha." But
that leaves you with 96 minutes at CAP,
which uh basically is not much. It's an
hour and a half. Now, people are like,
"Is that OK? Is I mean like the
difference between an hour and a half
and two hours? I mean, that's 30
minutes. Does that really make that much
of a difference?" Really, the difference
here comes
from the fact that it's all in how far
the enemies have to travel. If the
enemies are traveling a very short
distance to hit us, um we've got to be
ready to go. If they have to travel a
long distance, we don't have to be ready
to go. Remember, this distance is about
300 miles. So, we're actually fine with
the heavy, but just for the sake of
argument here, we'll do the light plus,
which I don't know if I find that kind
of interesting. I am going to switch
that quick though, just in case. And
again, I'll have these guys ready
available immediately. Then what I'm
going to do is I'm going to grab the
rest of these chaps here. I'm going to
go ahead and grab those. This is where
it's going to get very, very interesting
for us because I really want one of
these to be reserved for IR recon. We're
actually going to take one of the
airplanes out for a ride in a minute.
grab the exact same thing. We'll assume
the emergency has started, so we need a
heavier load here. So, what I like to do
here, and again, if you're a scenario
designer, a lot of times when you do
this, notice this is a 3-hour time
already. That's fine. That'll work
great. All right, Spartan asked uh
a question about the air group on the
carriers. Can you operate carriers that
are not qualified on it? Uh let me try
this again. Unfortunately, I don't know
why they chose to do the way they did
it. That are not qualified on like the
F-15 or Super Etendard. You can
literally put any aircraft you want. Um
you know, if you want to be really,
really, really funny here, I could do
something like this. I could do a
Yak-28. I don't know why you'd do a
Yak-28, but you could stick it on there.
So, it really does not matter. Any
carrier is compatible with any. As a
matter of fact, if you're a really,
really, really silly person, I think
it's the AV-8B. I always forget. There
it is. You can get the actual Lexington,
like the OG Lexington carrier, and you
can launch F-35s off of it. It really
does not make any difference at all in
that regard. So, it's just kind of one
of those sort of hmm, sort of neat
things. But what I do want to do though,
and again, this is uh one of those kind
of things that comes with experience.
I'm going to grab myself uh one of the
Tomcats. And again, we have the ones
that are going to be acting as our CAP.
We have the ones that we're going to use
probably as escorts later on. And then
of course, we have the ones we don't
have. I'm going to grab one of these.
And again, we're cheating here, but I'm
actually going to make it a recon
airplane. And the reason I want a recon
airplane is cuz I need to do some recce
real fast, which you know, we're in the
UK, so of course, recce is sort of a
thing here. So, I'm going to launch that
one individually and actually get that
one going right away. Meanwhile, I'm
going to go ahead and uh get this
mission going here because I do want to
actually get some CAP up here just in
case the DAC'd people decide to say
hello. CAP!
We'll set up patrol again. This is all
pretty standard stuff.
We're going to grab our F-14As. Looks
pretty good to me. And remember, we have
to grab the ones I I wish there was like
an alphabetical order mode. This would
make it so much easier. 1 2 3 4 5 6.
Now, this is important uh because uh six
is not many aircraft. So, basically, are
we going to have two on CAP at a time or
we going to have three on CAP at a time?
Cuz you could have them sort of
basically uh tag team off. And I'm
actually going to go with three. And
that seems a little absurd, but I'll
show you. You you can see here we have
try to keep how many units on station at
a time. So, what I'm actually going to
do is I'm going to say keep three on at
a time, but I'm going to set the flight
size to three. Now, the advantage here
is that means we always have half the
crew up in the air, if that makes sense
to you. The other thing you got to watch
out for, too, I like how there's a QRA
option. We don't get that in another
consumer edition, but that's OK. But one
of the things we have to do is see the
enforce flight size? If we lose an F-14,
we have to make sure that we can still
launch F-14s. And this will give us two
dedicated just fly around and do your
thing. But one thing we do want to
check, too, is the
and we want to make sure that everything
makes sense here. So, let's see here.
MCON settings, active radar. You know,
active radar is fine. Uh we could try to
use the F-14s in a stealthy fashion, but
let's be realistic, folks. The F-14s
would not flip their radars on until
they get a little bit further out. Now,
one thing somebody always asks me is uh
do you have the ability to make a hole
in the middle for your carrier groups so
they don't turn the radar on until they
get there? Yeah, you can absolutely make
a basically a O if you want to think
about it that way. And some people like
to do that so they don't have their
F-14s lighting up right away, kind of a
thing. But it's just kind of the way
that that's um again, depends on how far
how much detail you want. I know there's
people who put like and really get
serious with the naming, but it's
totally up to you. And again, it's your
game, so you can decide how you want to
sort of approach it. All right. So, our
CAP is ready to go. Our um little recon
pod guy is ready to go. He's going to
have a really fun time because he's
basically got to cover this whole
distance. We're going to have to be be
to get all recon guy some gas.
Now, one of the downsides with all
carrier operations, and this is just
kind of the nature of the beast here, is
the fact that our distances can be kind
of long. Uh this is a 228 mi. Uh 228 mi,
if I grab my F-14 real quickly here, and
again, we're taking this guy right here,
they're putting him up on the deck, we
can see here, we get a 525-mi cruise
radius here, but it's a high high high
profile. We're not going to get a high
high high profile. Uh that's simply just
not mathematically possible here. We're
actually going to um
probably go by the Big Bend and honk a
couple times and drop some flares as we
do it. So, we're actually going to be
using a high, dropping down low, doing
our rekey, and then flying back out. And
you'll see exactly what I mean once we
get to that kind of a position. So, our
AWACS is all set, our refueling is going
to be good to go. Um we should probably
prepare the fueling now, so we just have
it ready to go for when we get back. So,
I'm going to go ahead and create this
real quick. I'm going to create this as
a refueling track.
Refueling track. This is actually
usually located much closer to the
carrier. One of the things I learned
years later is uh this would probably be
Oh, let's see here. I'll grab my
distance measuring Now, this actually
could be a lot closer. There's no reason
why my refueling track has to be that
far out unless absolutely positively
have to get to that particular position.
So, what we're going to do here is we're
going to set this as a support mission.
Press okay dokey. We're going to grab
all my refuelers. Uh we have some uh
KA-60s.
These guys have um pretty big refueling
capability. Like, you'd be really
surprised kind of a thing like that.
But, they don't have unlimited range.
It's uh we have plenty of range to get
out there, but believe it or not, we
don't carry as much fuel as you think we
would do. So, what I'm going to do for
my refueling track here is I'm actually
going to set this to an inactive
mission. I don't want people to be uh
refueling until I'm ready to actually
deploy them, cuz they're going to burn
up all the fuel before the strikers get
back. And again, it's one of those
things that when we work out the time in
a few minutes, uh you'll see just how
involved a strike like this can be.
Again, carriers are different than land
planes. It's it's got its own kind of a
beast. One thing we do though is uh
inherited uh allow This is one of the
things we can do. We can come in here
and define how we can use this
particular refueling, but I'm not going
to worry about that. Key thing is
they're going to be on deck, they're
going to be ready to launch as soon as
it goes. So, what I'm going to do now is
I'm going to give it a little bit of
time,
and I'm going to grab myself uh one of
the F-14s that's on deck right now. And
there is. Right, pause. Let's go grab my
F-14. Uh let's go give him a really
really nice
Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Goose
recon. I like that. It's like Ghost
recon. So, what we're going to do is um
we're going to kind of approach it. Now,
if you're dealing with a multiplayer
situation, um one of the downsides of
multiplayer, of course, is there's the
meta game, and obviously there's only
two targets available on the map. So, no
matter what I do, like, what you would
normally do in the real world, of
course, is you do something like this,
and then you go like this, and then you
Well, you do that. And the reason you
would do that is basically to not make
it obvious that we're basically going
for their airfield here. We're trying to
pick a vector that makes more sense,
that's going to basically confuse the
crap out of the people who are actually
going to be shooting at us. Now, when
you're dealing in single player, this is
a different experience, because
depending on how the mission editor
actually took the time to sort of engage
all this will have a big impact on you
know, whether or not they're detected
early or anything along those kind of
lines. You know, it's just kind of the
nature of that beast there that uh like
I said, I find very very interesting.
So, anyway, I'm going to get this guy
going. Uh one thing I have to
double-check is to make sure he's not on
a mission. He's not. So, fuel count
amount counts here. Fuel definitely
counts, and this should not be my fuel.
Yeah, that's my um little escort there,
if you want to think about it. Now,
let's go flip it over to the other side
real quick. And like I said, think about
it this way. This is what you see now.
Is it obvious you're dealing with a
carrier?
Mm, partially. Uh the reason we can
guess that, of course, is we have the
presence of all of a sudden a bunch of
carrier aviation with carrier aviation
airplanes. But, keep in mind that uh
just because an airplane is that far out
of range doesn't necessarily mean you
could detect it naturally. As a matter
of fact, if I flip on my little
Shackleton's here, because you know, the
Brits are helping us out here, too, you
can see that we're actually out of
range. Uh the only thing that's
detecting those, believe it or not, is
this guy. Uh we actually have several of
these. These are type 91 radars that
have no problem acquiring this target.
So, one of the things that uh we're
doing is uh we would actually have to,
if we wanted to psych them out, like my
carrier's over here, what you do is
you'd actually drop to low altitude,
come to here, climb, and then appear on
their radar, and basically tip
everybody's hand that, "Hey, by the way,
we're actually over here." Now, the
reason that's so important is we
actually come in here, and I find this
again, this is just things you have to
think about and why this game's
incredible, is if um we wanted to
simulate how far out can the radar see.
You know, if you have a target altitude
that's uh let's say uh that's Look
again, 10 ft is out that far. Let's say
it's 1,000 ft.
Refresh the Of course, you can change
the color. I always do that. Ready for a
lag here? If this isn't lag, I don't
know what will. Uh you can see that's
what 1,000 ft looks like.
So, again, we have plenty of room to
kind of sneak in and out if we need to.
Uh multiplayer is only available for PE.
It's been a while I didn't touch CMO. Uh
great question, Spartan. Uh Command has
always had multiplayer, but it's I go,
you go. And um I actually if you look at
my first live stream for Command, we
actually did do multiplayer for the PE
version. Uh one of the nice perks of uh
being friendly with the staff and doing
the videos for them is you get stuff
like that. But, uh one of the things we
actually did is we demonstrated it, and
it's very much you do all your turn, you
press save, goes to the other guy,
executes the turn, he does his turn, he
does his turn. It's almost like chess
kind of a thing like that. And it
doesn't lend itself well to knowing
what's going on. Like right now, what
I'm about to do with this aircraft is
I'm about to basically do some rekey
with it, and I could not pull that off
in I go, you go. What I'd have to do is
make my waypoints like ultra super duper
duper duper duper precisely careful
super duper kind of a thing like that in
a desperate attempt to try to uh make it
so that everything that could happen
will happen in my 2-minute block. You
know, it Not that it was frustrating,
but it was very it was a challenge, like
I said, and everything's kind of
different. Okay. Pause.
Now, notice this. And uh this is a
Command thing, and I notice that my
F-14s have decided to fly into UK and uh
say hello to my uh Tupolev 95 here. Uh
the reason that happened, of course, and
this is a good tip for new users who
have uh ever run into this problem, is
you have to tell them not to investigate
contacts outside the patrol area. It's
just a kind of one of those things. And
now, when I unpause here, that crew is
going to go, "Whoopsies!
Just kidding." And you can see they're
doing a big old 180 and are running back
home here. Yeah, nice going, guys. I'm
looking at you. So, of course, let's go
grab Goose recon here and uh send him
down to minimum altitude and uh get
ready. One of the cool things we have
with minimum altitude now, which I think
is super cool, is you actually can do
terrain following, and you actually have
lane cover masking. So, if you want to
go darn darn darn diddly low, you have
the ability to do that. Now, if you're
an Apache, you can go very low. So,
we're going to go ahead and dive here.
Uh the good people at uh what do we have
here? Uh Middlesbrough is going, "Uh
what's that, son?"
kind of a thing as this guy goes ripping
in.
Now, people automatically think that uh
we've got mountains, you can't see
anything. But, one of the things we'll
take a look at real quickly here, and
I'll go ahead and call this up so you
can kind of see it. Let's grab that real
fast. Now, let's do uh relief layer. And
this is the actual mountains that
basically Command is looking at. Again,
another thing to make you realize is how
powerful this program is. And you can
see very clearly that it's mountainous,
but it's not like ripping mountainous
kind of a thing like that. You know,
very much that like when I try to plan
my approach here. By the way, hold down
control, and you can create an extra
waypoint, which is awesome. You can see
like I've got this valley I can try to
come in here like this, and now I kind
of come down this valley. But, at the
end of the day is anything looking down
at you is going to be able to see you.
So, it's like, aw, you know, this is
really good if I was doing like a cruise
missile strike or something like that.
But, at the end of the day is it is
going to be pretty obvious kind of a
thing. So, I'm going to step him up to
military power. Uh he's got to speed up
a little tiny bit, but let me switch
over really really quickly to our red
team here. Now, notice that our F-14,
who's now trying to do the best he can,
he's flying pretty low. Um we can see
him, and you you can see him very
clearly. Every once in a while, by the
way, if you wonder why you get a little
one sec, it's because basically we're
losing sight of it uh every once in a
while. But, notice it's going to go
diving into this valley here, but it
it's not going to matter, because my
AWACS is going to see it. And that's
just one of those misconceptions. Oh,
look at that. We actually broke it up uh
for a second. And of course, the AWACS
guy is like, "Whatever. I don't know
what this guy thinks he's doing." kind
of a thing. And of course, my little
F-14, he's like making it, but now we're
basically crossed all of the UK here.
And then he does his little turn. Now,
in the real world, of course, uh there's
why would you uh put yourself at this
much risk here, because uh people could
basically track you down easily. Um
let's see. TFR affect the ability to
follow terrain. Excellent question, uh
Spartan. In the PE version, it does. You
actually have to be running the terrain
following radar to be able to fly very
very very very low. Um in the consumer
edition, I do not believe it does at
this time. I know that there are some
discussion about that. The same thing
with weather radar, actually, which I
found very interesting. Now, if you want
some really fascinating stuff, and I
mean really fascinating, they were
actually discussing um the ability to
basically have position uh what's the
best ambiguity, which I find super duper
interesting.
Um what that would mean is my F-14, for
example, does not have GPS. So, if he
was able to be able to identify
something in this particular region, he
would actually have to know where he is
to identify where it is. So, you'd run
into a situation when I left-click on
him, he could be anywhere within like 10
mi or whatever until he crosses like a
lake, and he's like, "Oh, I know where I
am again." And it's such the coolest
concept if you really think about it.
All right. Prepare to get a lot of angry
F-16s launched at me here. And again, uh
this is all just a scenario. This is all
you know, this is completely
unrealistic. It's just to demonstrate
some tactics, you know, some things to
sort of approach. So, let's pop up 2,000
ft. And I'm just going to come up just a
tiny bit here. And we need a little bit
of altitude. Our goal here, of course,
is to do a low altitude flyby. We have a
tarp spot on here, and the purpose here
is to basically see the fact that there
is a Rapier missile right there. And in
the real world, I would have just lost
an F-14. What did not happen, and which
is a shame, is if I click on this,
you'll notice I I didn't pick up
anything. I didn't spot any hosted
units. Uh that's incredibly
disappointing. And the reason why is
because the hangers there are actually
concealed hangers. People think just
because I can run a camera over the top
of something means, "Ah, I ran out of
fuel."
Told you.
Like I said, uh unfortunately, if I were
to actually grab him real fast, I'll put
him right here real quick, just to sort
of demonstrate the point here, is that
we have no problem spotting the Rapier
with our pod, but notice we can't
identify any of the hosted air units
here, because they're all aircraft
shelters. So, it's one of those things.
"Will our position be affected by INS
drift?" Uh Spartan, that's correct. Um
if I have a little bit of time a little
bit later on, what I can do is I can
grab the actual presentations that uh
Demetrius, who's basically the head of
the programming show for Command, great
guy by the way. If you If you want to
learn way too much about these things,
he's the guy to talk to. I was calling
him Demetrius.
It is awesome. But uh one of the things
is is that, you know, they'll discuss
like they actually have a whole set of
slides basically demonstrating how
complicated this concept is. All right,
so Goose is going out, but check a look.
My little Ka-60. Look at that, he's
ready to get gas. Check this out.
Now, here's the mistake.
This is really really really important.
Do you see how he's heading to that
refuel uh point right here? He doesn't
need to head to that refuel point. If he
goes to the refuel point where my little
Ka-60 is, he's basically going to drain
one of these guys, so that means I can't
use them. So, what I can actually do is
you can order him uh just kidding kind
of a thing like that. And again, I can
order him to return to base right away,
and he's going to skip my Intruders.
Now, head right back. But in an
emergency situation, which I'll allow it
to happen here just for demonstration,
they're all quick response, he'll
actually get some gas. But now, notice
how much easier that was for me, but
unfortunately, all this fuel is being
basically wasted, cuz um he has 20 ft to
go. And again, it's another one of those
things that you have to think about
tactically that can happen to you. And
again, things you never really think
about in other games. Oh, I got
unlimited fuel. No, no, you don't.
Okay. So, now that that's all set um and
we're good to go, uh we're now ready to
go ahead and assemble our strike. We
learned nothing. Absolutely n o t h i n
g. So, the reason we learned nothing is
because they're all hardened aircraft
shelters. Now, I love doing
reconnaissance with satellites, which is
super fun part of this game as well, but
I don't know what they have, so that
means I have to basically optimize what
I have. But what I did discover is a
bunch of SAM squadrons, and I have a
fixed position on them. That's awesome,
because that means I can actually use my
secret weapon against them. So, coming
in here real quickly, uh you'll notice I
have a wide variety of my different
weapons here, but one of the things we
do not possess is we don't have
Tomahawks, cuz this is 1985. But what we
do know is we know roughly where they
are, so that's going to be a huge
advantage to us when we do assemble our
next strike. So, let's go ahead and get
our strike together now. So, the SAMs
are going to be a threat. Uh when I
first started playing this game, um my
thought was you could just add escort
missions to solve the problem, but it's
actually not the best way to handle
SAMs. The other thing is I'm one
aircraft carrier, and I have no
Tomahawks, which means it's going to be
pretty hopeless to try to come in here
and basically target both of those at
the same time. If I have no knowledge of
who's parked where on the airfield, it's
going to be a bit of a process to be
able to really do damage to these
fields, which means I have to
concentrate do as much damage as I can
to the one airfield I have and try to
hit the hangars. But again, if you look
at the structure, let me just turn this
on star mode here, you can see just how
smart and well laid out this whole place
is. Everything is spread out. They're
very large hangars, they're all hardened
hangars. They're going to require an
epic amount of munitions to destroy.
That's That's the nature of the game.
Unless I have somebody with a pair of
binoculars up on the silo who can see
into one of those hangars, I'm busted.
I'm going to have to basically hit it as
hard as I can with the heaviest stuff I
can come up with, which luckily for us,
we have. So, let's go back to my carrier
group here.
Let's head back over here. Well, the Sea
Sprite will deal with that problem in a
minute. We'll go to F-4s. Um we're going
to assume we have all of them available
here, but we also have A-6s, which are
fantastic. So, using our 1/3 rule again
as that we mentioned a little bit
earlier here, we're going to assume
these guys are unavailable, but we're
going to assume these are available for
tasking. Now, me personally, nuclear
weapons, that'd be the simplest way to
solve this problem.
But uh one of the things we have here is
of course we have the Skipper, which is
um it's it's neat. If you've never
actually seen one of these things, it
Can you see the bomb that they just sort
of shove stuff into this little rocket
motor on the back? It's the cutest
little thing. These are really really
really cool weapons. Basically an early
standoff weapon. It's actually pretty
quick standoff weapon, too. But what
we're most interested here is going to
be the range of 14 nautical miles. Now,
you're sitting there saying, "Why is 14
nautical miles an important piece?" It's
an important piece because we know that
these are Rapier SAMs. And of course, if
you click on a Rapier and you do a quick
little range circle here, you'll see
that its effective range is uh about
five nautical miles, which means I can
stand off weapons into it and basically
destroy it right away, which Please do
that. Don't don't bother with the HARMs.
Just If you know where it is, just blow
it up. It works fine. The problem though
is this guy, and this is the Bloodhound.
And the Bloodhound has a fantastically
long range, but the downside of the
Bloodhound, and everybody will know this
uh right away, is the fact that it needs
line of sight to hit a target. And if we
actually take a look at this here, we
can see it has 24 missiles, which is a
lot of missiles. Uh this is a quite a
bit. It's well dispersed. It's a soft
building, it's reveted, you know, it's
pretty much ready to go kind of a thing.
It's 1970s technology, which means it's
jammable. We don't have any ECM with us,
so we're going to kind of have to do
this the hard way. And of course, we
have the Firelight TIR. I don't see how
many channels we have on this particular
one. I'm being absolutely blind right
now, but you should be able to tell me
how many missiles we can actually get in
the air at a time. The important thing
here is it's going to take them 5
minutes to reload, which is cool. Uh of
course, this also means we have two of
these things uh ready to go. Plus with
the single rail, 12 of those ready to
fire. That's a lot of missiles. So, to
kill this one with a standoff weapon is
it's it's going to be absurd. We have to
get within 14 miles to take the shot.
And 14 miles, if I do one of these
things real quickly, it's just not going
to happen.
So, we're going to have to come up with
another way to [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] this one, and I
think I have just the weapon in mind
kind of thing like that. So, let's head
back over here. Uh let's go ahead and
get everybody ready sort of a thing.
We'll grab our F-4s. I'll use our 1/3
rule one more time. 1 2 3 4 5 6. We're
going to ready arm those guys. Sorry,
they're just not available. So, we're
going to need a lot of escorts for this
mission, and I mean a lot of escorts.
load these guys up and get them ready.
Uh we're going to do a quick, which is
perfectly fine. I know it's really
tempting to use the F-4s as the bombers.
Believe it or not, bombers they're
fantastic bombers, but the A-6s are
really the ones that are going to do the
deed here. So, I'm going to grab my
A-6s, and we're going to load them up
with a ton of standoff weapons. And
basically, some of them are going to be
dedicated for the purposes of trying to
strike our Bloodhound, which is going to
crush us, cuz look what we have. We get
the Shrike, and the Shrike is a piece of
junk. It's absolutely like I know it
works, but like it just it's not It just
doesn't go straight. I know it looks
like a HARM, this is not supposed to
look like that. But notice its range is
25 nautical miles, which is fine against
the Rapiers, but it's worthless
everywhere else. We also have the
Standard. Now, the Standard is
different. For those of you who don't
know the Standard, does this look
familiar? It's an SM-2. Uh you'll notice
the range on this thing is 50 nautical
miles, which just the threat of having
the Standard is enough to basically
limit them. Four Standards is a lot.
Now, one of the things you probably
noticed when I clicked on this a little
earlier, let's go back to the Bloodhound
real fast here. As you probably noticed
its missile defense rating up top,
missile defense rating, nine. So, that
means it's not going to be able to
defend itself against nine. So, if we
have two Standard guys basically raining
these things down, hypothetically, we
should get at least one hit. So, of
course, uh we always have three, but um
we're going to stick with it. So, what
I'm going to do is I'm going to grab
three of these guys for the purposes of
the HARM work here. 1 2 3, you're going
to be my anti-SAM team. So, what we're
going to do is we're going to grab the
Standards. They're really really really
expensive. Oh my god, there's somebody
in the Congressional Budget Office who's
uh going to send send me a very strongly
worded email later. And we're going to
grab the rest of these guys. Yes,
there's five of them. Oh well. And we're
going to take them, and we're going to
load them up with something that we know
is going to do the deed. Obviously,
B-57s are the correct choices here. This
will definitely end it. Nope, we're
going to do GBUs, and ideally, we're
going to use something that can do some
penetration here.
All right, GBU-10s, and we're going to
grab the flares. Let's check the range.
Uh I think we're plenty range here. 650,
yeah, we're fine. That's a long flight,
by the way. So, that's going to suck.
Glad I'm not these guys. Good enough.
So, now they're good. These are our
strikers. These are escorts.
Everything's ready to go. Uh if you're
looking for the magical ratio there, uh
remember can things that don't have the
reach, you can just pick them off with a
traditional standoff weapon. Things that
do have the reach, you're going to have
to come up with some way to get close
enough to actually hit them. My DCS fans
of course will say, um "Well, if you're
a uh shooting an arm at this thing, you
have to be pretty high." Yeah. And then
of course, you have to deal with the
incoming escorts. It's it's going to be
a disaster. Let's do it. So, what I'm
going to do is I'm going to go ahead and
get some missions ready here. I'm going
to go ahead and hold down the shift key.
I'm going to grab this one, this one,
and I'm going to hold down shift and
grab this one. Control F1, 11. So, we're
going to call this deed. This is not
seed, this is deed. So, I'm going to do
a uh lion strike there. I'm going to go
grab my
Ah.
I feel so sorry for these guys. Uh
remember that uh fun little group of
A-6s that I basically grabbed here. Boop
boop boop. I'm going to go ahead and
toss you guys. That is your job. Notice
that big angry error message?
And we're going to break it into flights
of one. This is uh seems very bizarre
and very dangerous, but it actually
works pretty well. And one thing that I
like to do, too, is you have formation,
we actually can order them to do a
standoff attack, which is what we're
going to do. And again, the Bloodhound
is going to make such a mess of
everything. I'm not going to go through
the process of making flight plans to
make this a safer mission. I would just
reach in and help out when I need to.
I'm not going to create any escorts, but
uh one thing I will do is I'll set them
to inactive. I don't want them to be
running out of here. The next thing I
did, uh this is one of those things that
uh it took me many many years to realize
it's just a safer way to do it. Um I'm
going to add a reference point, and I'm
basically going to create a CAP zone.
And uh what I want to do here is I don't
want to create an escort mission for my
fighters. Uh you can do some, but one of
the things I learned to do is to
actually just create CAP, and then throw
all your airplanes in that zone at the
same time well, the strikers get there
at the same time. It's just my opinion
easiest way to do it that I found. And
I'm going to grab all of my F-14s. Um
that'd be nice if I had F-14s, but I
don't. I'm going to grab all my Phantoms
for this, because uh we're going to need
all of them. "These are coming low, and
are you using the Skippers low as well?"
Absolutely.
So, the thing we're going to watch out
for, Spartan, and uh this is what's
going to happen is uh when we go to
strike, we're going to get intercepted.
And my low-altitude heavy bombers have
nowhere to go. So, we're going to have
to basically soften them up and hit them
all at the same time, but the loft is
going to be very limited low altitude.
So, it's just kind of one of those
things you have to watch out for. Oh,
let's go pull this out here. Um you need
to actually create a mission for that.
So, let's do that.
Create uh we'll call this tar cap.
Tar ooh, that sounds good to me. We'll
do patrol. We'll do AEW patrol. Press
okay doke. We're going to set this to
inactive. We're going to grab all of my
Phantoms. Again, I'm I'm Phantoms. Yep.
And that's what we got. Now, the one
thing I want to do here, and this is
going to be a big deal, is I need to
make sure I tell my missiles not to fire
at anything, especially for my Sparrows.
Oh my god, I hate sparrows so much. Is I
have to tell them not to use better than
50% max range because uh we're going to
be dealing with targets that are very
very very very capable of getting out of
the way of things, and you'll see us get
absolutely slaughtered when that
happens, too. That looks good. 50% of
max range is going to be fine here.
And then of course we can do the exact
same thing WRA for our AIM-9s. And again
um automatic firing range is like five,
so good enough. I'm going to leave it
like that. Beautiful. So those guys are
inactive, they're ready to go, and now
we're just going to go ahead and set up
my actual strike itself. This is why I
wanted to do that reconnaissance at the
beginning, but I found nothing. So we
have to play the um hmm which one of
these looks like the most likely place
for a target. So what do we have? Uh two
each two times, what is that? Eight? Uh
that's uh 16 bombs, which is not much.
So uh I'm just going to grab it.
Obviously none of the open parking spots
because we would have had that uh when
we did our strike. So we're going to
pick this group down here, and I'm going
to try really really hard not to
accidentally here. We're going to call
this uh strike one. Obviously we could
never do this mission um this is going
to take days and days of strikes in
order to actually destroy all this
field. And of course some of you are
like, why don't you just uh [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] the
airfield by targeting the runway access
points? Yeah, that's awesome, but a lot
of times killing the planes on the
ground it works even better. Of course
how many runway access Wait a minute,
I'm getting an idea. See this is
dangerous.
How many access points do they have
here? That's kind of my question. And uh
of course it's not going to give us that
information. Ah, I have to do it the
hard way. That's okay though.
Uh let's see here. I see one. Wait a
minute. Why am I being Why am I working
so hard here?
Hmm I see one two access points, three
access points, four access points. Is
that it?
Remember if I miss one of these we're
doomed. Yep, that's it. Oh forget this.
I'm going to do this the easy way.
Never mind.
Again, what I was hoping to do here is
to actually acquire the location of the
people on the ground, but that's okay.
So let's go ahead and grab the access
points. One, two,
three.
Of course like I said, if you miss one
this is completely pointless.
There we go. Add all selected on map.
Looks pretty good to me.
Now some of you of course are sitting
here saying, is there an easier way to
do this rather than having to like go
through and kind of uh seeing all this?
Yeah, there is. Let me show you a cool
trick. Let me show you a cool trick
while I'm at it. I'm actually going to
grab the entire airfield here.
And you're sitting there going, uh-oh,
what have you done? Let me go back here
and I'm going to press add all selected
on map. Oh no, there's too many things
here. Now notice all my access points
are down here at the bottom.
Go ahead and go like this. I'm going to
go ahead and move selected. Ta-da! Now I
have all my access points, so we can
[&nbsp;__&nbsp;] that airfield real quickly. Now
one of the things I really really like
to do now is you come over here and do
targeting priority. Watch this. So let's
go ahead and add an item, and we'll say
uh facility. We'll say um we can even
say the specific one. So you can
actually click runway access point, and
you can actually say this is going to be
priority. So if you create that now,
it's going to target runway access
points first. And then if we want to of
course we can come back in here and we
can add another one, which will give us
the ability to basically kind of come
from there. But like I said, this is
such a cool way to do this cuz now I can
say I want a facility, uh limit to only
what's on the map. Uh I don't want
aircraft. Well, that'd be pretty cool.
But if we come down here and we say
let's say what do we say? Bunker? We'll
say bunker target class any. Actually
no, we want to target the ammo. Oh no,
we don't want to target those.
Uh AVGAS bunker. Now what we want. We
want a surface building. Is it going to
give us what we want? Hardened hangar.
Uh we'll do surface building. Press add.
Cool. So now I'll put this up to the
top, which is going to be access point.
Now if I come back here, let's go ahead
and clean all this out.
Add on map. Now I don't even have to
tell who to attack because what it will
do instead is it will just go after the
access points first, then it will target
the bunkers first. Look at that. I don't
even have to work. Isn't that sweet? So
it's just a kind of one of those things
that works really really well for us for
these kinds of missions. So let's get
some aircraft assigned here. Um I have
one two three four five. That's not
much. Uh we're going to set them as one
group that's going to be large. We're
not going to enforce flight size. One
thing they do in the real world of
course is you'd have uh basically one
escort group and then you'd have a
second group that basically is a backup
group in case the first group can't go,
but um for our case that's perfectly
fine.
We're going to do a uh we'll do a split
attack. Keep it nice and simple today.
And we're going to do relatively tight
because um everything is going to be
hitting us at once. Uh one of the cool
things we can do here is I like how it
says no targets. I gave you targets,
man. And we're going to say focus on
striking targets, engage until
Winchester, uh continue mount return to
base. Yeah, I like that. But we have
targets, man. We have targets. I swear
we have targets.
We do. Of course uh one of the things
you got to watch out for. No, it's a
land strike. I'm good to go.
Nice. All right, so that looks pretty
good. I'm happy with that. Uh one thing
I'm going to do though is I'm going to
make this inactive because I don't want
these. I need to pick a time on target,
but I have to do the math first, and uh
I'll show you how to do the math when we
do it. These guys are all good to go. Uh
the C-2s we're not going to use. I'm not
going to worry about those. I'm not
going to worry about those. That's
perfectly fine. So we're pretty much
okay to go. And again, this is very
hands-off. Uh many people who are much
better players at this game um who have
done played it far more than I do.
Again, I do a lot of experiments. Would
probably do a lot of this manually. Uh
they'd never risk doing missions, but I
kind of like the idea of getting the
mission right the first time sort of a
thing. And keep in mind the um the good
folk that DAC'd here are going to shoot
things back at us, and the mission's
going to be a complete disaster. But um
we'll simulate that as we go, and that's
one of the reasons I like to kind of
play in the map editor is we can do
that. All right, let's work out what
time this has got to be. So Zulu time Oh
look at this, they agree with each
other. So it's going to take uh let's
see here, we got to measure the distance
there. That's uh 220 nautical miles. I
can do the math. That's going to take 40
minutes to get there. 32 minutes to get
there. Takes uh two minutes per two
aircraft, and we're launching what is
that? Like uh six 12 of 12 plus five is
17. Now plus uh my
what was it? Three escorts? I can't
remember already. It's a two minutes to
launch. It's going to take 40 minutes,
and it's going to take plus 35 minutes
minus 60. That's an hour and 15 minutes.
So to be safe here, that would be 7:30
8:30 will be the time we actually get on
target there. So head back here, and
we'll go ahead and reactivate these
missions, but we'll set a time.
Active. Time on targets is going to be
Anybody remember what time we put down?
8:30. Whoa whoa whoa.
I've invented a new time. It's 83:00.
8:30. By the way, be careful here. Um
some people do accidentally this. So
just just be mindful of that. Strike
one. Uh it's plenty of targets. Uh time
on target we said 8:30. 8:30. Whoa, god,
I did it again. 08:30. That looks pretty
good to me. And we'll make sure we're
active.
And then we'll go to Taro, and we're
going to make sure these guys are also
there. Now people are already screaming
out here saying, whoa whoa whoa, that
makes no sense. Why would you do that?
You should have your um deed seed guys
get first, then your cap guys, then your
strike guys. Actually normally it would
be cap cap deed strike is uh the typical
order that you'd see. So we can actually
do in here is uh play with this a little
tiny bit. So we're going to actually
going to set these guys to be there at
8:32. We're going to set my uh target
guys. Of course they're all more
specific. Uh these guys are going to get
there 8:30, which is going to be pretty
good. And then we're going to get my
deed guys to be there at about 8:28 and
30 seconds kind of a thing. And that
should be a pretty decent spread. And
again, this is one of the things I love
about this. So that would be it. So then
I basically unpause, and then I
kind of stretch, and I pop back a little
bit, and I I can't wait till the
fireworks start kind of a thing like
that. So off they go.
So um if this ever happens by the way,
and your screen starts getting really
really really really crowded, you can
always come here and you can actually
disable this. Say I don't want to see
the plotted course. You can also change
the color. Plotted courses I can say
selected unit. So if I don't want to see
everybody take off at the same time, uh
they won't do that. But you can see um
they're pretty much ready to go almost
instantaneously. As a matter of fact, if
I go up to the ATO, you can see just how
busy this day is. And remember I gave
everybody plenty of time to get airborne
kind of a thing. And everybody's off
doing their thing.
One thing you always have to do is a
massive idiot check here. And uh one of
the things like I said, keep an eye out
for this is that we have a bunch of
aircraft here. Uh we have one group of
phantoms. It's a pair. We have another
pair here. And now we have the other
pair of those guys right here. Let's go
actually hit tab here and see if we can
get a better look at this. This is the
K-6. They have already launched. Now the
thing that I'm noticing here is these
aircraft are immediately flying towards
the target zone independent of
everything else that's going on. So
let's go ahead and take a look at what's
going on. This is a 08:30 is time on
station. And that should should be
pretty good. Uh let's go ahead and take
a look at the ATO here. I don't trust
something here. Oh, we don't need to see
that ATO. We need to see the global ATO
kind of a thing like that. Air tasking
order. Uh we want all missions. Boop.
Let's see here. When are you guys
supposed to take off? So the takeoff
time for my deed, they're supposed to
take off at 7:42. So they got 22
minutes. I just don't know why these
guys took off so early. And um that's a
little weird. It must have been
something when I was setting my
inactive, I didn't set my time on
station on time. Something like that,
but um it's only half an hour flight,
and they left at 7:20. So this could be
a really really big problem for us. So
we will cheat a little bit to uh fix
that problem before it gets worse cuz
one of the things I see here is these
guys are right on time, and I can see
that these guys right here are right on
time. So it looks good. Uh this is not
pre-recorded, Milan. Uh you can
certainly jump in anytime you like.
And again, it's just kind of fun. So
they're on their way, uh which is
perfectly fine. Um good to go, but like
I said, they shouldn't be on their way
cuz they're going to get there way too
early. As a matter of fact, I could even
um one of the cool tricks by the way,
click on somebody, press F3, and then if
you click on the waypoint and press F2,
what it will actually do is it will tell
you how long it's going to take them to
get there. So you can see here they're
an hour they're 20 minutes out, but they
were supposed to be there at 8:30.
Um so I don't Again, I'm pretty sure I
did that correct. Uh most likely what
happened is they were already on the
takeoff field before I actually clicked
time on station. So make sure you set
time on station, then set your missions
back to uh ready to go kind of a thing
like that. Easiest solution to this by
the way is I can just press the B key,
and then we can just cheat. And this is
uh one of those little things that I
love about the map editor is uh we can
actually order them to go land. And what
we'll do is as soon as they get back on
the carrier
is that we can actually fill them back
up with gas,
and then they'll be ready to actually
complete the rest of the mission here.
So I'll grab them real quickly, and now
you can see all my F-4s that just came
down. See how it says ready, and they're
not ready for another hour and 20. So I
can set time to ready now, and I can
basically set them uh ready to rock
here. So I can say they're ready in one
minute, for example. So they'll have
plenty of time. Of course, they were
supposed to have already taken off a
minute ago, so I'm already they're a
little late to the party, but I did fix
my timing issue here. But again, little
stupid things you can do in the map
editor in the event that the mission
gets away from you like that. So,
unfortunately, I think those are the
rest of my F-4s. And now they're all on
the way, guys. You're not You're not
supposed to be there yet.
It's all part of the fun, as they say.
So, unfortunately, um these guys are
going to get there too soon. So, I'm
going to grab them. I actually back them
up. And yes, everybody's going to sit
there and go, "This is just an ongoing
problem generated because of the fact
that we did it." Now, here comes my
A-6s. They took off right at uh 7:42
they were supposed to. And the rest of
my escorts are there.
Neat.
Exactly. That's awesome.
So, one of the things they do want to do
is yes, they're going to have a little
less fuel when they get to the party,
but that's okay. And everybody's uh back
on mission here. We can kind of get them
rolling. Now, one of the things you just
watched is my A-6s just did a donut in a
holding pattern. And the reason they're
in that holding pattern, I'll show you
real quickly, is cuz they need to make
sure they get there at the correct time.
So, those are my standard arm guys.
These guys over here are my standard arm
guys. I'm just going to confirm that my
other A-6s uh did launch. Uh they're
ready to go. Uh what is your takeoff
time, gentlemen? Uh let's see here.
Takeoff time. Uh we're looking at Toro.
Uh that's those guys. We're looking for
strike strike one. Uh their takeoff time
is 7:42. Okay. So, one thing I wanted to
just confirm real quickly here. And now,
you will make this mistake a million
times, by the way. Is sometimes this
button gets checked. And now, when that
happens, that can affect uh its ability
to get airborne. Which like I said,
always check your missions before you
launch them. So, I'm going to get them
going. Cuz unfortunately, they're going
to be very late cuz uh they're supposed
to be at the target in a half an hour.
That ain't going to happen. So, I'll
grab them. Achu.
And now, you can see uh now we're
basically back on our way and good to go
kind of a thing like that. Okay. So, now
this is another fun thing to do with the
map editor, of course, is um we can now
switch back to the other team and we can
be ready to kind of actually respond.
So, I'll press control right click to
find area. I assume they'd be going
right in for this particular region.
Control F11.
Uh call it cap.
It's kind of fun.
Yeah.
It's a fun game. Like I said, I just I
find it relaxing.
Like I said, uh nothing too too crazy.
And it's always a good to sort of try
everything. So, we have plenty of
aircraft uh to put onto cap here. So,
I'll do groups of four. And um that
looks fine with me. Um we're not going
to let them We'll do weapons range here.
We'll assume this is the uh British
response, so to speak. Which is fine cuz
uh they won't It won't take them long to
uh send a bunch of aircraft up to come
say hi kind of a thing.
Uh one thing I do want to do though, and
this is just a thing on my part. I
failed twice today, by the way. The
other thing I forgot to do is I forgot
to actually take this group of you. See
my mission real quickly. Again, just
another piece of advice. Under cap real
quick, you'll notice the fact that I
said keep three within the area. But on
my actual TARCAP that I developed,
you'll notice the fact it's 1/3 rule,
which means only 1/3 of the aircraft are
being kept on station at the same time.
Which unfortunately means the rest of my
Phantoms are still sitting on the deck
of the carrier. Again, little things you
have to watch out for. One of the things
I recommend anybody does who's uh played
this game for any good length of time,
you will all know how insanely important
it is to uh save often. So, I'm just
going to whoop. Now, you guys get to
join the fun here.
Cool. We'll go ahead and press this. And
um we're about to get ganked by a lot of
enemy aircraft all at the same time.
Now, people who uh want to meta game a
little in here, of course, can come in
here and do one of these things and
immediately flag them as hostile. So,
that's going to get my Phantoms
motivated. But like I say, this is going
to be a slaughter. Uh meanwhile, we have
this crew here. Uh this one group of
Phantoms. Uh they're going right after
the AWACS. I actually don't want them to
do that. So, uh the reason they are
going after the AWACS here is because if
they did identify this as a hostile
target and because of their WRA that's
allowing them to do this. Killing the
AWACS would give us a huge advantage as
far as decreasing time of knowing what's
going on. But um we have a much much
bigger threat that's going to be coming
out of the actual target region itself.
Not to mention uh once the missiles
start flying, it's going to be basically
death kind of a thing for all of us. And
again, this is uh one of the reasons why
I say this mission just You could never
get away with this mission, essentially.
You'd have to do this at the middle of
the night and rain or something like
that to basically do something to be
able to get remotely close enough to
even do your engagement here. And you
can already see the Bloodhound is doing
its thing. I'm very curious as to where
my AWACS ended up here. Uh those are a
bunch more Phantoms. Where are my AWACS?
Now, notice because everybody got to the
party at the wrong time that everything
is busted. My AWACS does not strike
properly. Um everything is set that way.
You can even see if you look carefully,
he's uh trying to turn himself back onto
waypoint four here because his intention
is to be there at 8:30 while everybody
else is coming down there at the same
time.
Yes. Like I said, it's a really really
good cuz like little things like that,
it's hard to keep all that stuff in
track as you're kind of uh working
through these missions. And now, there's
the Battle of Britain going on, which is
uh very entertaining because um uh I've
got a bunch of Phantoms and they've got
a bunch of F-16s. So,
this is going to get really messy. It's
basically the Phantoms It's the AIM-7
versus the AIM I think it's the
What is it? The 9Cs, which are the SARH
versions. This is going to be a very
messy battle. And I'm going to lose a
lot of aircraft.
Which is okay because the purpose of
this is uh to show you everything and
just how incredibly challenging this is.
All right. We're getting all sorts Oh,
is that a I was going to say it was the
first time I've ever seen a Sparrow
actually hit somebody and destroy them.
So, um again, notice the F-16s can jam
like crazy. So, they make things very
challenging for us. Meanwhile, our A-6s
are just trucking. And again, notice
because our cap took off too early, uh
they didn't achieve anything. They
basically made a bunch of noise there
and then came rushing back. Notice, by
the way, our right on schedule. Look at
that. I told you about 8:30, our
standards are going to get fired. And
there they go. Uh just like we had
planned, notice they're going right for
the Bloodhound, which is uh got its
illuminator going full blast here. And
of course, it's going to get splattered.
And now, the Bloodhound is gone
20 minutes after everybody already
started getting shot down. So, as you
can see, it's so insanely critically
important that you set your time of
takeoff and all that stuff before you
reactivate a mission. Otherwise, they
just go. So, it's just a kind of one of
those things you have to always kind of
be mindful. By the way, I spotted a
submarine. What's up with that? So,
meanwhile, these guys have to fly into
the zone. I have no Phantoms left. They
all got obliterated, which is exactly
what I expected with a bunch of F-16s.
And of course, a smart player at this
point would turn around and leave cuz
they realize we're just going to get
hammered if we try to go through. But we
want to watch the fireworks. So, we'll
switch back to this team real fast.
We'll order everybody to return to base.
You know, we'll give them a chance cuz
you know, we're being generous kind of a
thing like that. And I will say these
are I'll mark them as friendly even
though they're clearly not friendly kind
of a thing like that. You know, we'll go
even one step further. We'll even delete
the mission for them so they have some
chance to actually try to do some damage
to this airfield here. So, we got our
pigs. Again, look at the time it is.
They're supposed to be here at 8:32.
And notice, by the way, I wish group is
this. This is the deep guys. This is not
the actual bomber types here.
Where did my bombers end up, actually?
That's a great question. Where are my
bombers?
Oh, I'd be so mad if they were just
chilling here. So, if this ever happens
to you, by the way, you can always press
the O key and now, it'll bring up
everything that you have going on so
far. So, you can actually identify who's
on what mission. You can actually say by
task and you can come back here to
strike one. My A-6s got obliterated.
Shucks. Mission failed. But again, I
think it's very valuable that you can
kind of see just how crazy that is and
how critical it is, like I said, full
blast. So, now what we're going to do is
we're going to destroy the carrier
group. And of course, uh we've had a fun
time here. We launched a very
ineffective strike against 48 F-16s and
it failed miserably, which is what I
hoped for. So, now what we're going to
do is we're going to get some revenge.
Now, earlier in this uh little video
here, I was pointing out the fact of how
important it is to sort of orient your
carrier groups and things like that in
such a way that the escorts can do what
they can to incoming missiles. Now, the
Ruskies have a lot of really really
really really good anti-ship missiles.
Uh starting over in this side, of
course, uh we have this one, which is a
super duper fun here. This is the Siren.
This is the nine. This is the P-120
missile. Look at this thing. It is
stupid fast. It's all medium range
though. It's got 80 nautical miles
there, which kind of a shame. Swinging
down here to this one, uh we have uh
let's see here. I'll go into the P-70.
This one's much older. And when you look
at it, you'll be like,
It reminds me of a KH-22, which is a
fantastic weapon. 40 nautical miles, by
the way, on that one. So, we're going to
have to have a little bit of shenanigans
to kind of get this to work. We have the
P-500. This is the Basalt. I notice, by
the way, they're all named after stones,
which I think is awesome. This thing is
ridiculous. Even though it's late '70s
technology, it's it's going to be an
annihilator. We're coming over here, of
course, to a much more. This is an
Oscar. This is a 949. This is much much
much much much later. And we have this
thing. This is the P-700. Look at the
size of this weapon. It's got this
little cover on it to protect it until
it launches and then it falls off and
lets the air intake come in. This thing
is stupid effective. And again, it's a
300-mile range there. So, it's going to
be quite the fireworks on the poor
carrier group. Swinging back over here,
of course, we have the Onyx, which
again, another stone.
Kind of funky looking. This reminds me
of something else when I look at it.
This thing is unfair. And it's also
modern technology.
So, uh one of the big weapons whenever
everybody thinks of a big carrier
defense and groups and stuff like that,
is always going to be the submarine. You
know, a lot of people think of aircraft
as being dangerous. And trust me, a
regiment of Tu 22s will make a very very
short work of my carrier group here. But
the reality is it's the submarine
carries the torpedo. And there's very
very very very little anything that
anybody can hope to do as far as uh
defending against the You know, it's
just not a thing you can do. But
anti-ship missiles are also fairly
effective as well. So, what I'm going to
do is I'm going to grab my subs here.
And now, we're going to play this uh
little game I like to call this isn't
fair.
Grab that one here. We'll grab this guy.
Look at the range of this guy. He can
actually stay back here and I intend to
keep him back here. I intend to keep him
back here. And I'm going to
grab this guy and move him a little bit
closer, too. So, what we're going to do
is uh we're going to do a time on target
attack with my subs against what's left
of our group here. You know, a lot of
people are like, "What's the secret to
uh breaking up a carrier group?" Hitting
them at the same time. It's usually the
absolute best method to use here. So,
I'm going to grab all these guys real
quickly here. I'm going to press control
F11. Uh let's see here. Um when you're
doing a time on target strike, a mistake
everybody makes is it's not that they
don't use dissimilar weapons, which is
totally fine. It's that they forget that
the weapons take time to get there.
So, I'm coming all the way back. The
furthest target we have here let's see,
cruise speed at low altitude is 105. We
get about uh 1,600 at altitude. So,
let's pick 1,400 as kind of my middle
value there. So, if I get on my
calculator, I haven't bought one on my
keyboard that does calculators. It's
awesome. So, 1,400 / what did we say?
140? That's going to take 10 minutes to
get to the target. That's important. So,
if I grab this guy, which has got a
P-70, which trust me, it's a piece of
junk. Um I'll grab this thing. It works.
It's just not as fast as you'll see. We
need to see exactly how long this one's
going to take to get to target here. So,
that's going to take 600 knots. So,
distance there is going to be 25 at 100
knots. Not very fast. Uh what did we
say? 100 knot? No, it's not 100 knots.
100 nautical miles. 600 / 100 * 60.
Okay, that's not bad. So, um 600 / what
did we say? 20 about 30 nautical miles?
Ooh, that's not bad. So, it's going to
be about 6 or 7 minutes, which is
plenty. So, um we need to give ourselves
at least an overhead of about 15 minutes
if uh we're going to be successful here.
So, I'm this kind I'm going to do it
correctly. I'm going to do anti-surface
warfare. Surprise! Missiles, surprise!
I'm going to go ahead and do one of
those kind of things. Press okay here.
So, let me go ahead and uh scroll down.
I'll grab all of our subs. 1 2 3 4 5.
Oh, this is so cheap. So cheap. It's so
wrong. And we're going to do a time on
target. Remember, this is weapon time on
target. So, uh we said what did we say?
15 minutes or so? So, it's 8:33. So, if
we do a 9:00 strike, that would give us
plenty of time for the weapons to get on
target. Go ahead and do that. Notice I
did the time on target before
I set this to active. That was my
mistake on the previous mission. I feel
so ashamed. So ashamed. Of course, what
I did not do was actually had any
targets. So, let's grab the party. Let's
go into targets. And let's add the
party.
Looks pretty good to me. Focus on
striking targets. That looks pretty
good. Looks pretty good. Awesome. So,
now the interesting thing here is our
subs don't have to move to strike the
target. They basically relax. And uh
when they get in time, and uh this is so
much fun to watch. Basically, uh they're
going to launch staggered. And what the
goal here is to try to get all those
weapons to basically arrive at the same
And you can see where the refueling
track is. It's very very obvious because
uh they're all concentrated one little
region here. All right. Let's take a
look at the clock. The clock says it has
to be 9:00 a.m. is uh when the missiles
uh show up suddenly. So, this will be a
lot of fun.
Again, uh just sitting here. My subs, I
don't know why. Notice this guy's moving
full blast here. And the reason he's
moving full blast is he's trying to get
himself in range of this. So, um I hate
to say it, Scat. Uh you're not going to
get in range in time, Chief. Of course,
um all the anti-submarine assets in the
universe will all be getting ready to
kind of join in on this sort of party
here. Notice these guys also are trying
to close to try to keep the uh rest of
the squadron in range. Whoa, slow down.
Uh there it is.
Notice, our first set of missiles
launched. And uh they're on their way.
And I notice everybody immediately
panics. They fire up all their jammers,
and they start making a lot of noise.
All their SPS's and all their active
sonar. Everything kicks on at the same
time. But notice the other submarines
now fire their missiles. The reason
they're firing the missiles now is
because of the fact that they have to
time it. So, all the missiles get there
at the same time. So, you can see how
now how Look look look at the party.
Look at the party. And then notice this
guy right here with the uh P-70 here
fires last. And now notice, look at
this.
Let's uh switch back over to the
carrier's eye view. And this is why time
on target is so important.
Well.
So, um if you want to see terrifying,
I'll just go switch to 3D view for a
second here. This is a very amusing
thing to sort of watch. And now we we we
can see that um well, we're trying.
And we're making an effort
Look over here. Okay, we can zoom out.
Look at the
Yeah, you have fun with that. I'll see
how well that goes. So, everybody starts
shooting, and um the fireworks start.
Notice, by the way, how difficult it is
to acquire the individual missiles here.
Really only get a good look at them uh
the last possible second. We can see
this little cha-cha line of them
basically arriving. We're getting active
radar seekers. I'll switch back to night
here so you can really see the Oh, he's
gone.
Notice, by the way, how many missiles
were completely wasted here as they uh
kind of sneak over in that direction.
Meanwhile, our carrier is having a happy
time of it. He's uh joining in the fun.
Notice that just cha-cha line is uh
basically cheating nothing. Oh, I got to
love those ESSM. Oh, no, the carrier.
Oh.
And um
yeah, that happened. So, our carrier's
on fire, and uh he's flooding. But um
that's completely survivable, by the
way. Um believe it or not. You still
have many missiles just smacked into the
side. Um we're hurting, but we're not
disabled. Um we probably lost a pretty
good amount of our complement there. So,
if I press F6, you notice I have less
planes than I started with. And that's
not just the Phantoms I lost earlier.
The reality is here that this carrier is
crippled. Uh one thing you want to do is
you want to slow down. Uh when you want
to start doing damage control, you've
got to slow down. Pretty please with the
cherry on top. Slow down. Um if you
don't slow down, um basically, any water
that is leaking in leaks in faster. Um
notice, by the way, our other escort got
completely completely 100% obliterated
in
Down it goes. But meanwhile, and this is
what I find so fascinating. If I swing
back to the other scene, do you notice
they fired another round of missiles?
And the reason they fired another round
of missiles, by the way, notice it was
9:00 when the first missile hit. Um the
reason they've done this is because of
the fact they haven't finished the job,
so to speak. And our submarines are
doing a pretty darn good job of this.
So, of course, uh these weapons uh look
at them all. See the zigzag they're
doing? The big S. They find the giant
carrier, who's now slowing down. Uh by
the way, um when you are dealing with
anti-ship missiles, you always want to
put yourself beam to the incoming
weapons. You actually want to do this,
which feels very unintuitive, but it's
the only way. Oh, we have no rudder, do
we?
Oh, boy.
Oh, that's the end of that. And here
comes the next round. Of course, uh this
guy's sitting here uh going, "Did
anybody see something? I could have
sworn I saw this little explo- What
happened to the carrier over there? I
think there might be some missiles over
there." Conk. Conk. Ooh, ow. Ooh, each.
And it's over. Just like that.
Now, of course, you're sitting here
saying, "Wow, that's uh that that's
tough to survive." But you'd have to
expect all the submarines were able to
get in position. 25 miles is not hard
for submarines to actually get into
position to be able to actually, you
know, basically do the deed, sort of a
thing. So, looking at losses and
expenditures, you can see just how crazy
this is. We got two F-16s and a couple
buildings. And uh
let's see, losses. The answer is yes,
they were all completely annihilated.
And again, I just want everybody to get
a good look at that. Look Look at how
many stores we lost just all at the same
time. And you're probably sitting here
saying, "Would modern technology have
done a better job?" Now, this is where
it gets interesting. So, let me go ahead
and reopen the save game again from the
beginning. I'll grab my blue team here.
All right. Same scenario as we had, by
the way. Everything's reset. I've got it
all ready to go. And what we're going to
do is uh we're going to grab a ship that
really really really really has good
time of it. I'll show everyone something
really really cool. Um I do have access
to the actual editor for uh Command,
which I think is cool. And I did get
permission to actually show off what
this looks like. But one of the things
we can do here is if we go down to ships
real quick. I'll go pop over here. Um
let's see here. We're going to sort this
by uh missile defense. And uh the reason
I'm doing this is so that you can have
an idea of um what is the most
ridiculous target to try to destroy with
anti-ship missiles. And then we're going
to give it a shot, and you'll see
exactly just how easy it is. Let's see
here. That's crew. That's beam. That's
service. That's standard displacement.
That's if it's hypothetical. One of the
mistakes here is um this thing is a big,
as you can probably guess. And anybody
who's ever, of course, uh seen this one
before, uh that's the targeting loop.
That's damage points. You know, like how
some of these actually have repair
capacity and stuff like that. Selected
components, I'm going to have to go
hunting again. I'm not going to have
time to zip through all this, and I
don't want to spend too much time on it.
But um basically, this is where you
would have all the information stored.
And it looks kind of like this. So, it's
actually Oh, that's because it's
auto-calculated. Never mind. It's
auto-calculated. There's not going to be
something I can do. But what we'll do is
I'll grab our escorts here.
And we'll replace them with something a
little more capable. And uh this is
where it gets interesting. So, we're
going to grab something very very very
very modern here. We'll grab basically
the nicest we can possibly get. That one
got canceled, kind of a thing like here.
Here we go. This has got the Block
IIA's. This is a fantastic weapon. So,
I'm going to go ahead and press okay.
I'm going to go pop him here. I'm going
to go grab my other one. We'll replace
him with a DDG this time. And we'll grab
the latest and greatest that we have,
kind of thing. Actually, my favorite uh
ships for this actually the British
ships, usually, when it comes to air
defense here. So, let's see here. DDG,
we're going to get an Arleigh Burke,
which I actually can now pronounce
properly because uh somebody corrected
me in one of my previous videos here.
See, uh Flight IIA I think is going to
be the way to go. Now, these are really
really really capable ships. Um they
have This one's 20 equivalent, which uh
it's actually not terrible. Let's go to
this one and uh see what he's got for
missile defense value. And missile
defense, 96.
That'll do it. So, let's go ahead and
move these to a little bit tighter
position. Let's go ahead and grab my
group. Let's go ahead and order them to
kind of head this way. Get some speed
going on. And then we'll try the same
thing, and you can see just still how
effective the strategy is. And that's
one of the things I find so incredibly
interesting. All right. And you guys
need to get a little closer. Okay, you
have no range at all. So, you're going
to come right here.
You're going to come really close. My
god. Would you want to get that close to
a carrier group? Remember, it's like 25
miles. It's not that far. Grab this one,
and we'll grab this one. He's perfectly
in range. I'll put him right here. Cool.
Let's grab the party. Control F11.
Try this better. And again, this is just
what's so incredible about Command that
as fast as I can snap my fingers, I can
recreate my scenario here. So, I will
set this attack for what is about 15
minutes I said. So, this is going to be
5:50 a.m., which is going to be fine.
Time on target is going to be uh 5:50
a.m. 0550.
Click it about 10 more times. It looks
pretty good to me. And I got to go ahead
and add all my targets to it. Looks
pretty good.
We're going to go into here, mission
settings. We're going to say opportunity
scrambling's fine. One thing we could do
is reduce uh reduce the number of
missiles we have by Ah, we don't want to
make it easy for ourselves. Go ahead and
unpause. And what did we say? The uh
missiles will arrive at uh 5:50 a.m.
So, again, several of the subs have to
actually pick up their speed here to get
into position. But trust me, the process
will be the same. And um you'll find
this very very fascinating how quickly
uh they're going to be able to shoot all
these incoming missiles out of the area.
It's it's terrifying. It's It's quite
It's quite a show. Quite a show.
Let's go ahead and accelerate time a
little bit here. I got to be careful cuz
I basically got to tap space bar the
missile moment the first missile gets
launched. There it goes.
The party starts. So, remember none of
these ships have radars on. So, we'll go
ahead and let that kind of sneak in
here.
Here comes the next round. Notice
they're all going to get there at the
same time. I love it. Look at how cool
that is.
All right. Let's swing to the other
team.
Blue team, I'm actually going to flip
the radar. You know what? Let's give
them a Let's give them a fighting chance
and I'll go ahead and flip the radars on
real quick. Uh sensors menu. Oh, you can
do that and you can turn on your
jammers, too, cuz why not?
Incoming.
Now, notice if I I had the KH-22, which
is a very very high altitude missile,
they would have snapped their radars on
already and have started basically
getting ready to go. So, of course, um
this is going to be missile spam. Go.
I think I like my computer.
Remember this is one ship doing most of
the work.
So, one of the jokes is the missile
always gets through and um
Yep.
That's my
He's going to have to try to get it with
the CIWS and I don't think that's going
to go well for him.
He's out of the fight. He's out of the
fight.
Oh. Ooh, that was a last second CIWS
shot.
Come on, man. You can do it. You can do
it.
I like how the missile's running after
the other missile. Oh, no.
Notice two got through to the carrier.
And as I've demonstrated before, um
anti-ship missiles are a problem.
Anti-ship missiles are a problem. And
I'll do it one more time. I have a
little tiny bit of time left and uh
again, this is just
making you realize all this and I
hopefully takes some of the sting out of
people realizing just how dangerous this
is. Is that we have also super anti-ship
weapons and I'll go ahead and I'll make
them join the party, too, because I'm
such a bad person.
Do do do. Uh let's see. Which one do we
want here? An anti-ship ballistic
missile. That should do it. Let's see.
The 26D. Uh is that the one that I want
or do I want to do the hypersonic glide
vessel version of the uh dolphin here?
Let's see here. Uh road mobile anti-ship
ballistic missile. You want to see some
real fireworks? Watch this. Uh let's see
here. A 2160. I think that's close
enough. Let's just grab that one.
And let's put him um let's see. Dresden
seems like a pretty good spot for that.
So, that looks pretty good to me. Let's
go ahead and grab Maya to believe and
put him right here in the middle. That's
pretty good. And I want to make actually
a group of these things cuz um if we're
going to be unfair, we're going to be
unfair.
Group them.
Uh let's see here. Uh we'll go ahead and
uh make a mission for these group guys
real quick. I'll make I'll make sure
they're not in minimum range though and
you'll see what I mean when this
happens. I got 72 seconds before I can
fire and the other problem is I only got
four each. So, that's that's that's
going to limit my capabilities here. So,
we'll go ahead and uh strike this again.
Strike one more time. I'll do a land
strike here. Actually, it's a naval
strike. Press okay doke. Make this one
inactive and we'll go ahead and make
sure the time on target is We'll do the
same thing we did before. Oh, uh what
size? 6:30 local time. That's going to
be 05:50
is going to be the exact same time we
did before. We're going to grab that
entire group down here. I'll group 168.
That's the one. Put them down here and
now one thing I do want to do is I don't
want them to uh do it. I'm actually
going to split their attack and we'll
off access even though they're not in
airplanes. Cool. Let's activate that
mission.
And I'm not even going to bring in the
submarines this time and uh you'll see
why.
Let's see. Let's Let's some time play.
Oh, pause.
Off they go.
Now, let me go ahead and uh change our
field of view real quickly here so
everybody can see uh why these are so
nasty.
So, if I click on one of these things
and I zoom in. Now, you'll notice its
current altitude. Let's go slow down
time a little bit. Pause.
This is a ballistic anti-ship missile.
So, when you think about all those
weapons that we just sprayed up into the
air for the purposes of a whacking all
those incoming weapons, imagine how
fairly unfair this is going to be
because um when they come back down to
Earth, literally back down to Earth kind
of a thing, what are you supposed to do?
I mean, obviously they have the uh SM-6
and stuff like that, which is capable
against weapons like this. But, just
look at the size of the warhead and this
is something that's going to be coming
through your deck. This isn't even going
to be something that's not going to be
hitting you from the side where you
might have some belt, for example.
Here they come.
So, of course, I'll switch to the other
team real quick. Notice they're
completely oblivious to the presence of
the incoming death and destruction here.
We'll help them out though. We'll flip
on their radars and we'll flip on their
OE CM and everything like that. Give
them somewhat of a chance here.
Let's see how that's all going. It's all
fired up. We're looking around and of
course, we don't have any jet ship. So,
we're not looking up, which means all
this stuff, which is uh coming back into
orbit here, which is uh what do we got
for an altitude here?
Uh
it's on 110 km. We just can't see high
enough to see this thing coming in. So,
um watch how much of a surprise that
this is going to be uh when we finally
do get a very very minor radar track on
a very predictable target, by the way.
It's almost something you're going to
see before you hear it.
We still haven't seen them. We're Oh,
there they are.
Let's see here. Altitude on that target
is Oh, jeez. Look at that. That's That's
pretty low. Uh that
Oh my gosh. Look at that. Look at that.
We're scrambling. We're pressing
buttons. We're battening down Oh. Ouch.
Each.
And
So, hopefully you all like this video.
Like I said, people were kind of curious
what this game is like and uh what you
can do with it and how you can
manipulate it and how like the different
scenarios work and stuff like that. And
what I wanted to show you with this
video otherwise, I you know, how to uh
completely mistime an attack and the
value of time on target is just how
vulnerable these ships can be against
these weapons. And there's one thing
I'll add and this is uh something Uncle
Demetrius would always throw out is the
fact that if this were a multiplayer
scenario, if that was my shot, I can't
reload that. So, that's it. I don't have
those again for later on in the
scenario. So, if I did not kill the
carrier, which I set fire to it. It's
It's burning. But, um ooh, it's
flooding. Is it actually going to sink?
We'll find out. We'll speed up time to
see if it actually sinks here.
But, keep in mind that might be it. I
can't do that again. So, that was my one
shot. So, you as a player, you know, you
as a tactician, well, especially when
you start working against human
opponents, you're going to have to
figure out ways to basically confuse
your opponent if you're going to have
any chance in the universe of being able
to survive these kinds of modern
engagements. And that's not counting the
fact that, you know, some jerk might
have a torpedo who's basically looking
through a periscope right now. He's
going, "Wow, this would be really really
easy." Does my Oh, no. He sunk.
Let's see what our final uh resultant
here was. Um that didn't cost us much.
That was about 40 missiles and we killed
the carrier battle group that didn't
even know it was about to be struck.
Interesting stuff. So, as we reach the
end, I'd like to ask uh if anybody has
any questions or things you'd like to
see, anything along those lines that I
can help out with. Maybe there's
something you want to see a little bit
different. Would you like me to run over
there with F-35s and get revenge kind of
thing? We could do one of those. But,
keep in mind, it's I'm just trying to
give you an idea of what you can do in
this game. I'm not necessarily a
tactical genius, which obviously I'm not
cuz I would know better than to try to
strike a target which had, you know, 24
ready to fly F-16s. Um there's simply no
combination of aircraft other than a lot
of F-22s and 35s that would have tipped
the hand on that one. But, again, that's
what I love about modern scenarios is
sometimes you get it wrong and no matter
what you've done, even if you timed
everything right, that one little detail
that you don't click right really can
make a massive difference. It also shows
you just how insanely lethal some of the
modern anti-ship weapons are and I
didn't even include any torpedoes, which
could have made this a very very
interesting scenario. One thing I will
leave you with, which is a kind of fun,
go over to our weapons really quick
here. Watch this.
They're trying it.
They're trying it. And now, basically
trying to come up with a torpedo that
can strike a torpedo and notice who's
carrying them.
All carriers. So, I thought you'd find
that kind of fun. But, other than that,
uh enjoy. Hopefully folks enjoy it. Like
I'll leave this one up. Um maybe we'll
do another one of these in a little
while. I'd like to do some just
submarine stuff cuz I love submarines.
That was That was my game as a kid for
pretty much forever and man, have I
played the death out of Silent Hunter
series. Other than that, enjoy.