# C: MO - Using the F-35 and F-15EX For an ambush
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eXHNVauGqw8
Video ID: eXHNVauGqw8

Hello everybody. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at using
cooperative engagement with a stealth
platform, a hard to detect radar, and an
awful lot of missiles combined all into
one awesome strike package. So, what we
have today is a really, really large
group of Tupelv M 22 M3s. We have some
Sukoy 27s, and they're all looking
pretty nasty. They're heading towards
our little defensive bunker over here.
So, I'm going to unpause.
I'm going to repause. All right. So, uh,
what can you tell me about the tactical
situation from the perspective of my
striking aircraft? I keep in mind, my
strikers are equipped with the latest
and greatest of modern air-to-air
warfare. They've got infrared sensors.
They've got everything under the sun.
What they don't realize is the fact that
just beyond their range, there is a
single F-35 sitting here with a
handydandy phased array radar, but with
its low probability of intercepts. One
of the great things about the F-35 is it
sensor suite. I'm not going to lie, that
is its survivability. It's not that it's
well armed or maneuverable. It's the
fact that it's hard to detect and it's
the fact that it can see things really
well. We also, of course, have ourselves
a pair of F-15EXs.
For those of you who are unfamiliar with
that version of the F-15, basically they
took the regular F-15E and said, you
know what's cool? 20 AM RAMs, which
means between the two aircraft, we have
40 AM RAMs. Now, if you do the math on
that really quickly, you realize that is
a total of two AM RAMs per target. Now,
the thing here is I cannot turn on the
radars of these F-15s. If I were to do
that, I would immediately give myself
away and we get in a really nasty AA12
versus A120 basic kind of a thing, you
know, dog fight. I don't want to do
that. But what I do want them to do is I
do want them to engage all these lovely
targets here. So, what I'm going to do
is I'm going to use the F-35's radar to
guide the F15's missiles. Now, this is
going to be a little tricky. Uh, right
now, we are not using any radars on
this. Remember, that's the important
part. You don't want to give yourself
away here. So, I'm going to press shift
F1. I'm going to go ahead and hold down
shift again. Drag a box around all of
these targets. Select them all. This is
important. And uh what I'm going to do
is I'm going to come down here. I'm
click this. Set this to one. Click that
twice. Come down here. And I go ahead
and do that again. So, um we're firing
an awful lot of weapons here. So, let's
see here. That's a 20 allocated for
both. That's 40 AM RAM missiles for
those of you who can do the math on that
real quick. Now, I want to stack the
deck on this engagement a little bit
here. And now, one of the things you
probably noticed is the weather's not
great. Let's take advantage of the fact
the weather's not great to put the
missiles into the clouds. So, I'm going
to go ahead and unpause here. Keep in
mind, my F-35s at no point, actually, I
should say my F-35 is running its radar.
My F-15s at no point will activate the
radar because to do so would basically
give up this entire conspiracy that I'm
basically applying here. So, I'm going
to go speed them up a little bit here.
I'm not speeding up time. They're
they're F-15s. They go plenty fast
enough. Now, keep in mind things like
infrared sensors, flurs, and all those
kind of things do a really, really good
job seeing the big flare of an
afterburner when it's behind it, number
one. And number two, it's also going to
see the big flare of an afterburner when
it's in a scenario that it's not flying
through a cloud. And now, this is one of
the few times where weather is actually
on our side here. So, I'm going to tell
my two F-15s to step it up a bit because
they're wasting the viewers time here.
And again, remember, they're not
activating their radars at any moment.
The only thing they're really doing
here, and I actually have to give them a
slight lead pursuit here, and yes, Lead
Pursuit was the company that produced
the fantastic Falcon series, is
basically what we're doing is trying to
get ourselves a little bit closer in
range. Notice none of our interceptor
aircraft have responded at any point.
They are 100% oblivious. And here comes
the fireworks. Now, the interesting
thing here is you'll notice they did
flip their radar on. And the other thing
you'll notice is at no point did I make
sure that I actually change my volume.
So, because it's turning its radar on,
let me go ahead and adjust my volume
first. I have a new button for this. I
have a new keyboard, by the way. Um, so
it should be a little quieter, I hope.
So, they're just going to spam spam.
Spam RAM is the classic thing we always
like to say for those of you who play a
lot of DCS here. And let's go switch to
the other side real fast. Now, do you
notice the fact the other side at no
point has detected the incoming attacks.
Oh, missiles. Ready for some fireworks?
This is the fun part because our
interceptors are basically this, if I
had to guess, was detected by visual.
Yes, the Iris picked it up. So, our Seoy
27s, of course. Actually, this is the
Tupel of 22. Well, they're immediately
going to start maneuvering here. But
look, there's more. Spam RAM. Spam ram.
Spam ram. Spam ram. Spam ram. Spam ram.
Going to get spam ram. And as you can
see, there was never ever ever a
detection at any point of the F-15s
launching their weapons. Now, the
problem, of course, is you're sitting
here going, "Um, you've obviously
discharged those weapons at the wrong
range." Yes. And now, as a matter of
fact, since the F-15s basically followed
through, this doesn't work either
because now the F-15s are going to get
themselves in a dog fight. It's not
going to work. Boo. So, what we'll do,
of course, is go load it back up again.
Now, blue, I believe I have everybody
set up. Yeah. And this time, what we'll
do is we'll shrink the range to our
engagement to something a little more
threatening. So, what we'll do is we'll
sneak them back on the clouds. We'll
kick them back up to after burner. And
we're just going to be a little more
careful with them this time. We're going
to creep up a little bit creepier. All
right, get to it. Can I do this without
fast forwarding to the point that it get
detected? Let's find out.
Remember, we're only seeing Oh,
sigh. So, the reason they fired, of
course, is uh because they were ordered,
too. So, I'm actually going to press
control shift F9. I'm going to come in
here and I'm actually going to order
them to hold fire because if they fire,
they're going to give the jig up before
I can actually like make this work. All
right, here we go. I swear this will
work this time. Here we go. Here we go.
All right. So, let's get our altitude
down to something that's a little bit
more reasonable. We'll do 34,000 ft
because it's between the two cloud
layers and go. Here we go. This time,
definitely. This time, definitely. Here
we go. Here we go. Dot dot dot dot dot
dot dot dot dot. Remember, the F-35 is
providing us with the picture that we
see here.
Come on. Come on. All right. That's not
quite point blank range, but for me,
that's plenty.
Now, remember, we're going to be firing
these weapons through the clouds, and
the F-35 is going to be providing us
with all of the required goodas that's
going to make this power actually pull
off. All right, here we go. Here we go.
Here we go. All right, shift F1, hold
down shift, drag a box around them. Um,
we're going to grab everybody. It helps
if you hold the shift key. You all get
one missile. Allocate weapons. You, on
the flip side, we're going to select
backwards here. Um, you all get one
missile. That way, we know the backfires
get the missiles. You all get one
missile. And I'm going to turn my volume
down again because uh the fireworks are
going to get pretty exciting. Ladies and
gentlemen, this is Oh, calculator. Can
you tell I have a new keyboard? Fire.
Let's go back to the perspective of our
opponents for a moment here. Keep in
mind the Sukoys in the front are going
to start maneuvering. Remember, there's
clouds. So, if you're wondering why
they're not racing again, at no point
are they getting any warning, they've
been fired upon. No points. They're just
aiming for their target. They're
checking their INS. Um, it's probably
early in the morning. Yeah, actually
it's Yeah. So, they'd be seeing the sun
just start to come up. Hey, we got a
detection of a missile warning. That's a
problem. But surprise, it's not the only
one.
What are you supposed to do about that?
Oh, somebody returned fire. I'm
impressed.
&gt;&gt; And of course, you're probably very
disappointed that that wasn't more
effective than it should have been. Uh
the reality is is once you know a
missile is launched at you, especially
at any sort of real range, it's uh
pretty maneuverable. There's all sorts
of fun things you can do. But the fact
of the matter is, and again, if we pop
this open for just a moment and take a
look at our losses and expenditures, uh
they're down six airplanes um and all
the stuff that goes with it, we haven't
lost anything, but it cost us um the
taxpayers a lot.
So, not so good in that. Now, one of the
fun things we can do here, too, and this
again is if we were going Ultimate
Tactics uh volume one, which I'm not. We
could have actually ordered the F-35 to
join him with the fun. We could have had
them start firing into the crowd as
well. And again, you got to be really
careful. Like these F-15s, the best
thing they can do is after burner and
get the heck out of there as fast as
they can, staying in that cloud to stay
covered. But keep in mind, our F-35 now
is adjoining the excitement. So now
there's all the Seoy 27s that are
probably firing all sorts of nasties.
But check this out. Surprise. They
weren't the only people who had some
none of those missiles worked.
Look at how many people. Did I mention I
have a new calculator? No. Did I mention
I have a new keyboard? All right, let's
go ahead and grab these guys and send
them up there. They have to run for
their lives. But here's the thing. The
F-35 now has a bunch of backfires that
are completely unescorted. So, from a
tactical perspective, this battle's over
because this F-35 could basically go up
and knock. Enjoy.