# C: MO - GNSS Jamming Counter Tactics
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F2qF40ekodo
Video ID: F2qF40ekodo

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at a recent
added feature to Command Modern
Operation 1776. Thought that was kind of
a fun name for version, but um in order
to hint at what this feature is all
about, if you haven't read the title
already, we're going to demonstrate it
and then discuss the implication of it.
Let's do it. So, I'm taking my B-52
here. I'm going to press shift F1. I'm
going to go ahead and click right here.
I've got this lovely little base here.
I'm going to select them all. I'm going
to go ahead and allocate one to each one
of these targets. That's going to give
me six, but I've got eight, so I'm going
to do the rest. And of course, let's
have some fun. I'm going to press
execute. I think that's kind of a fun
new button there. So, we're going to be
launching a bunch of those level
conventional air launched cruise
missiles. Meanwhile, I'm going to grab
this B-52 with the exact same setup as
you probably observing here. We go ahead
and allocate one to each. We're going to
go do that. We got to do it twice
because we got eight. I'm going to press
the execute button. Now, what I'm going
to do is I'm going to go and unpause.
And of course, uh for those you've not
seen this party in the real world, it's
actually pretty terrifying when these
things do their drops. What it will do
is it'll actually drop them off the
bottom. Now, the little warhead, I
should say, the motor will light up and
then they'll start ripping towards its
target. You can see just sort of this
thing just diving down till I get to low
altitude to begin doing its work there.
And of course, that's awesome for us.
Meanwhile, I'm going to do is I'm going
to grab my B-52 here. I got actually get
the right one. You can go home. You've
done your job today. Let me go grab the
other B-52 here. Yeah. What do I need?
The tomahawk. Yeah, go home, please.
Now, let's get the B-52 and send him
home. Beautiful. Now, there's something
you probably have observed right away
against our target here. You'll observe
that the cruise missiles that have fired
out here in the middle of um I guess
we're leaving California, getting to
like Nevada territory in Utah here. Just
cruising around. They got a bit of a
contrail, which makes sense because
they're cruise missiles. And we come
over to these and uh you probably
noticed something on the side of them.
You will have observed that we have this
thing that says GNSS62%
next to them. What's going on here?
Well, these lovely cruise missiles are
being jammed. um they're actually
blocking the GPS signal which is causing
them to lose accuracy of their
particular position. You'll notice the
uh G missiles at really high altitude
here are really losing the GPS much
quicker. And you're noticing the GPS I
should say the missiles at the low
altitude have great GPS reliability
right now. And you're sitting here
going, "Oh, I know why you did this in
the mountains. I see what you're doing
here." Yeah. So, the Earth is curved. We
have a vehicle right now that is
currently jamming all GNSS satellite
signals. I'm basically that's like
saying ATM machine, I know, but the fact
of the matter is the Earth is curved and
that means if my jammer is on this side
of the curve and my target is on this, I
should say my missiles on the other,
they don't talk to each other. That also
means that terrain masking has a massive
impact on the ability to guarantee that
your particular platform does not get
jammed. So, what is the practical upshot
to this? Well, the practical upshot to
this is that the longer something does
not have GPS or GNSS signal because
obviously Compass and Gausnes and all
those guys are affected as well. It is
going to be progressively less accurate
over time. It'll still be pretty
accurate because again, these things
were designed to be jammed, but the
reality is is they're going to feel the
pain differently. Now, our missiles here
will launched over the water
intentionally for the purposes of giving
them the most exposure to the strongest
jamming. Meanwhile, the missiles we
launched over the mountain range here
are going to have plenty of time to
basically not get seen by the jammer and
vice versa. if that makes sense. You
can't really see anything with a jammer.
You know what I mean? Line of sight.
There we go. So, they're going to have
plenty of time to basically hide
themselves until they pop out and do the
deed kind of a thing. Now, look at the
practical consequence to this. I'll
speed up time gently this time. So, our
cruise missiles are arriving right now.
These are big cruise missiles, by the
way. These are not little like this is
like getting struck by, you know, a
Cessna 182 kind of a thing with a miss a
big warhead on the front. It is big. All
right, they're coming in here. And as
you'll notice, their GNSS, a little
warning has reappeared on them. And you
can also take a look at my calculator
instead of pressing the minus key. You
probably know what that's all about. And
you can see um we've completely lost
satellite signal. So in the real world,
we wouldn't even be confident where
these particular missiles are right now.
They're pretty confident because this is
command modern operations. And I'm sure
at some point in the future, they're
going to make this a lot different as
far as communications between units
goes. But for today, this works
perfectly fine for us. All right, so
here they come. We got a good spread of
targets here. And you can see they're
all allocated. And here comes the party.
All right, that was nice. That was nice.
That was nice. All right, so none of
those weapons had GPS signal, basically.
And of course, if I pop up here to
losses and expenditures. Uh, let's see
here. Actually, what am I doing? Just
come down here and show you. You can see
the weapon accuracy was degraded to uh
14.3 m, which is um good enough. It's
good enough. It's good enough. If I
press controlV real quick, you can see
the fact that one of the bunkers was
struck more or less directly. So, that
did work. But what about our buddies who
haven't been jammed for the last 15
minutes? Well, their story is going to
be a little different. And as you can
see, they're still cruising through the
mountain range here. They're only going
to lose GPS signal in a moment once they
start diving out of these valleys here.
And you can see the immediate tactical
difference that you're going to see as
they pop out, basically. So, here they
come again. No warning. No issues with
jamming. No issues with jamming. They're
cruising along. Cruising along. I think
we're basically not going to get jam.
Oh, there we go. So, you can see the GPS
is quickly degrading. But wait, they've
only lost a few percentage before they
show up and start exploding things.
[laughter] Look at that. What a hit. All
right, let's go ahead and pop this open
real quick here. And as you can see, um
the weapon accuracy went down to 9 and
1/2 mters. So basically a 3 m difference
between having GPS um at all and not
having GPS. Now, of course, you're
sitting here going, "Okay, that was
pretty good. I like I like what you did
there. You you showed us very clearly
why terrain masking still works." It's
because, again, jammers are line of
sight. So how do we deal with one of
these pesky jamming units? Well, I've
got a buddy for that. And a F-16 C on
block 52. Surprise, surprise. Which one
did you think it was going to be? All
right, let's go get him. All right. Uh,
you need to you need to take off now. I
need you down south. California needs
you. Come to California. Come to the
California.
That's a joke that nobody's going to
understand anymore, but that's okay. All
right, let's grab our buddy, Dill number
one. Dill number one, if you'd be so
kind as to head down south. Hachu. Oh,
look at that. Now he's a little more hot
chew. use for even further down south.
That was awesome. All right, so one of
the things these are capable of doing is
they're capable of detecting GPS
jammers. There it is. The GNSS. I should
be more specific. So, there it is. And
of course, we're going to inconvenience
this jammer basically by delivering a
much more expensive weapon than the
actual jamming unit itself. A fun fact,
GPS satellites are really, really,
really, really far away. So, if you
think imagine normal satellites are like
where my mouse is, a GPS satellite would
be over here. So, just keep in mind
their signals are very weak. So they're
very easy to jam. It doesn't matter.
There are some constellation systems
again depending on how they do it. Some
are at different altitudes again
depending if it's compass or glowness.
But the reality is is their signals are
not very strong by the time they get
down to the ground. They're not
geocynchronous. Geocynchronous would be
over here. But the reality is they're up
pretty high so they have good coverage
and that gives them a very very weak
signal. All right, let's get a little
bit closer. A little X F16 here. This
should just say like the Gjet or
something like that on the side of at
this particular point. All right, let's
go ahead and waste some money. So, I'm
going to go ahead and fire up one harm.
Now, a harm has no problem tracking this
particular signal. That is unless the
other guy shuts off his jammer. One of
the interesting things I want to point
out as well is this harm missile is
going to have a really easy time of this
because the jammer does not affect the
harm missile. The harm missile just
wants to go for the big strong radar
signal, which of course since that's
provided by our jammer unit here, he's
going to get a bit of surprise when this
thing shows up and snaps him in two.
Now, the interesting thing here is now
that that's taken care of, I can just go
up and knock. Just roll in here. Let's
see here. What do we have for a weaponry
here? We'll go lock on to you. You get
You get a J Dam. And you get a J Dam.
Let's go ahead and take care of that
real fast. And one Mississippi 2. We got
both. Nope. We got to wait for the
second one to come off the rail there.
There he goes. Go home. Nicely done.
Now, you'll observe our J dams here,
which of course are GPS weapons. Uh
they're not affected anymore. There's
just no problem. They're just going to
fall right down to the ground. nothing's
going to affect their accuracy any
longer and they're going to happily
smash into those targets down there. Pop
pop pop just like that with no
consequence.
So, as you can see, the GNSS jamming is
an interesting problem. It has
incredibly long, very, very powerful,
very effective range, but it can be
countered but either by doing some
terrain masking or hitting with a good
oldfashioned weapon of its own to go
ahead and destroy it. Enjoy.