# C: MO - Cloud Cover and Visual Sensors
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f8uR3dLCq0M
Video ID: f8uR3dLCq0M

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at the effects
of cloud cover on detectability. Now,
one of the things you probably have
noticed in this game, other than the
impacts of weather in general, is the
fact there are different cloud layers
that can do different things to the
visibility of targets. Now, for the
purpose of this demonstration, what I've
done is I've actually grabbed ourselves
a P8 Poseidon, which is a very modern
maritime performance performance, I
should say, patrol aircraft. And of
course, the purpose of this thing is to
spot ships. So, we're going to spot some
ships. Now, currently we have ourselves
about um it looks like we got 36,000 ft.
We're cruising along pretty well.
Visibility is basically unlimited. It's
a nice day. It's about 25 Celsius. It's
an absolutely clear sky. Now, one of the
things you have to notice about all
things visual sensors, and this is
really, really important to know is that
they have two ranges. And now, we've
discussed this before, but it's
important you understand it before you
get panicky about it. What you'll notice
here is there's a 20 mile range and
there's a 30 mile range for our higher
magnification flur. 20 refers to the
searching range, meaning anything I'm
looking for, I can see in 20. 30 means
I've already seen a target, but I need
to identify the target. So, unless I'm
cued by some kind of external sensor,
such as a radar, the 30 mile doesn't
mean anything, but the 20 mile does mean
something. Now, there's something else
you need to be aware of, and that's the
fact that our aircraft here has a
vertical component to its altitude. And
a lot of people miss this. You'll notice
here that I'm cruising at about uh
36,000 ft here, which if you do the math
on that real quick, is about 7 miles up,
which means when I'm looking straight
down, I'm not looking down 0 feet. I'm
looking 7 miles away. Now, for those of
you who do math very, very quickly,
something that I could never do kind of
a thing. You probably notice that I have
a now a slant angle that I have to
consider. There's one more thing you
have to remember when we're dealing with
visual sensors. That's the fact the
Earth is curved. Now, when I back out
like this, it is very obvious the
curvature of this Earth. But be
surprised that if only 1,000 ft up, even
if I have a 30-mi radius, doesn't mean I
can see. Now, when you put all of that
together, we need to take a look at the
actual clouds themselves. So, if I open
this aircraft up real quick and tap the
F2 key, you'll notice that there is no
clouds visible anywhere in the sky. I
did that intentionally. So, we have a
baseline. You can also hold your mouse
and see here on the bottom that it is
clear sky, no rain when C0 is basically
flawless conditions. And the reason I
chose that is so that we could set up a
baseline and keep it pretty simple. Now,
one thing I suggest whenever you're kind
of fiddling around with the things, one
of the things I like to do is um you can
actually come up here and you can time
scale 1x when you detect a new contact.
And that is a great way to stop the game
so that you can quickly see what you've
detected and how far away it is. So,
let's go ahead and speed up time here.
Whoa. I see that did not reduce to 1x at
all. All right, let me fix it. All
right, all fixed. You had to set it to
air contact or ground contact. Contact
doesn't mean anything. All right, so
again, clear day. I go ahead and fly in
over here and I've already detected
something. I have the Arc Royale and
it's at a range of uh let's see here.
This is about 19 kilometers or miles
nautical miles I should say. I've been
in Europe lately so I have to like
readjust. But uh one of the things I
notice here is if I actually click on
this contact here, you can see I
initially picked it up with my eyeball
at about 18.6 and then just before that
you can see my high magnification flare
picked it up. Now we have line of
sights. We're within our 20 m and we're
able to pick up the target lickety split
no problem. or speed up time a little
bit here. Let me go ahead and do that
real fast. You can see we picked up a
second target a little bit closer
because obviously it's a smaller target.
This is an Achilles here. And you see we
picked up at 15 miles. Great. All right,
let's go ahead and uh take a look at
things a little bit different here. I'll
speed up time for a moment. Ah, we've
just detected an air target. And what
you'll notice about our air target here
is it's co-altitude. And you'll also
notice we picked it up at about 8 miles.
Now, the interesting thing is we passed
two airplanes along the way that just
sailed right by us and we never actually
saw them at any particular point because
they were so much lower than us and we
couldn't make them out from basically
the clutter on the ground because we
were so darn low to the ground. Now,
keep that in mind. Again, 18 miles.
Remember, 18 nautical miles there. So, I
just want you to be thinking about that
a little bit as we mix things up. So,
the first thing we're going to do is
we're going to show you the gentle
clouds. So, let's go up to the top real
quickly here. I'm going to go to the
weather options. In the first click
here, if you were to just grab this and
pull it one click in here, you will
notice this gets us light low clouds.
Now, if I wanted to, I could actually
click this to the middle and that gets
us light middle clouds. If I click it
one more to the right, that gets us
light high clouds. So, what I'm going to
do is I'm going to pick light middle
clouds. Remember, we have to beat 18
nautical miles. Let's see what happens.
Ah, now you'll notice something
different happened this time. you will
observe the fact that our target here,
uh, this is our lovely, lovely air
target, we saw at a distance of about
8.6 miles, which is what it was before.
The other thing you'll observe is the
fact we flew right over the top of the
carriers and never saw them at any
point. So, you can see here, if I
actually click on the PA and press F2,
that this light cloud 100% blocked my
view of everything below it. Now, you're
sitting there going, "Okey dokie. Um,
that could be problematic. That means
any form of cloud is bad. Well, it gets
a little more complicated than that. Let
me show you why. Let me go and grab my
aircraft. I'll back them up real quick.
I'll go ahead and drop this contact. So,
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
intentionally fly between the cloud
layers here. It's going to be about
12,000 ft. So, let's go ahead and drop
down to 12,000 ft. I got to back up a
little bit. It's still a 737. The
thing's got to descend. So, it's going
to go ahead and a dive there. I'm
actually surprised it's not picking up
speed in the descent here, but that's
fine. And now, this is where things will
get a little interesting. Let's go ahead
and dive a little lower. I think we just
cut through the cloud layer. Um, let's
see here. 16,000 ft is our clouds. There
we go. So, if I press F2, you'll see I'm
between the two light cloud layers. I'll
speed up time. You'll notice I picked
something up. As a matter of fact, if I
click right here, you will notice I
identified a target at very, very, very,
very, very close range. And of course,
this one is the one at our co-altitude.
You will also observe the fact that the
one that is higher altitude we did not
identify yet. and the one that is at
lower altitude we did not identify yet.
So let's go and speed time. And you will
notice once again the cloud layer is
completely opaque. At no point did we
make a visual identification of an
aircraft carrier. It was just that big.
Now you're starting to see well so
basically if you want to think about it
another way that cloud layer is
basically a line. It's like a veil or a
curtain that disables that particular
altitude. Now let's go ahead and reopen
our scenario again as we've just done
real quickly here. Let's go ahead and
bring back that naughty cloud layer.
Whoops. Let's go and bring it there.
What did we decide? I think we decided
the moderate the middle clouds today.
Light middle clouds. And what we're
going to do now is dip under the cloud
layer. Now, watch what happens. So,
right now, we can see we have light
clouds there. If I were to drag this
thing all the way down to we'll do 9,000
ft. That's a pretty good altitude for
us. I actually got to back us up again
just to get us going. Let's go ahead and
speed up time. And you'll see we pick
something up right away. And of course,
that will be our friend. This guy is the
12,000 footer. You will notice that I
was able to see into the cloud layer
above me because I came so darn close to
the actual aircraft itself. Let's go
ahead and speed up time some more here.
Ah, we detected something. And what
you'll observe here is we have an
unknown air. It's not an aircraft, it's
a surface target that is chilling here
at our maximum visibility range. Our
slant angle is actually gone away. So
again, very, very minimum. It took us
just a second to basically swing the
camera around, identify it as the Arc
Royal with a bunch of Harriers on the
deck there. If I speed up time a little
bit more here, we can see that we've
easily identified these two because
we're underneath that layer. Now, notice
we did not pick up any of those aircraft
that passed us. The only one we saw was
the one that was just a little bit above
us. Now, where things get interesting,
let me go ahead and rewind us a little
bit here. Let me go grab this. As you're
kind of understanding a cloud layer as
being basically a curtain, watch what
happens when you combine a cloud layer
with actually using some kind of cued
sensor. So, if I were to go to weather
again, let's go ahead and get that
naughty cloud layer. That looks good to
me. I'm going to keep him up here, but
this time I'm going to turn on his
radar. If you remember what I said
earlier, you'll remember the fact that I
said that if we have a radar cued
target, we can basically look in at that
spot and have a better idea of seeing
it. Basically expanding our search
radius. Now, what you'll notice here is
it took about a millisecond for us to
identify a large building we haven't
even noticed yet. And we immediately
have identified these two aircraft
instantly. Or not aircraft, surface
vessels. I'm going to keep getting that
wrong today. And we're able to identify
them because of how sophisticated the
radar is on board of the PA. It is a
very sophisticated phase to raid radar.
I could basically read the lettering off
the side even though it's a radar. And
you can see clouds didn't do anything. I
was able to see it very quickly. But
what you also notice is the fact I don't
see any aircraft on the deck. So what
we're seeing here is basically a
synthetic aperture radar image of these
two surface vessels. Hey, I got it right
that time. And we have no ability to
basically see them through that cloud
layer. So we know they're there. We know
what aircraft they are. And I did it
again. See there? We know what kind of
surface vessel they are, but we can't
actually look at them. And again, that
cloud layer acts as that kind of opaque
sort of nastiness there. So what we'll
do here is we'll go ahead and pass right
over the top of them. And you can see at
no point because of the clouds. Again,
they're invisible. It' be kind of neat
if there's like a visualization of the
clouds or something later on. You'll see
never ever ever. As a matter of fact,
when we passed into the blind zone of
the radar there, you can see they
actually dropped out. It's also worth
noting we did not see those other
aircraft at any point during the
scenario. There he is. The reason we saw
this one, of course, is because it's
basically at our altitude above the
cloud layer. Now, let's go ahead and
open up our scenario one more time.
Let's grab it real quickly. This is
going to be blue LU. Looks good to me.
And now, what we're going to do this
time is we're going to change the
weather. And we're going to bring in the
worst weather. So, I'm going to go ahead
and drag this down to full width clouds.
And you'll see it is thick fog 0 to
2,000 ft. And if I press the F2 key
here, you can actually see solid cloud
at my altitude, solid cloud down here,
and then of course nasty, nasty, nasty
fog here. So if I do something really
absurd, like say, "Hey, could you fly at
minimum altitude for me, please?" This
will be interesting. I'm go speed of
time. Ah, exactly. We never once saw the
vessels we passed by. Now you're sitting
here going, "Okay, I get it. I get it."
So basically, if you treat it like it's
an opaque curtain, you're doing fine.
Yeah, you are. as a matter of fact, and
the thicker the cloud, the harder the
older radars have to see things through
them. But one of the tactical
considerations you now have to realize
is that the clouds are like that. You
might be in a situation where ships
could legitimately hide as long as you
don't have any electronic emissions of
any kind. That also means if you're
doing an anti-ship operation, imagine
how nasty it would be if a bunch of
Harpoon missiles, which basically are
invisible until the last second because
of the cloud coverage, were suddenly pop
out. You'd basically win the war before
anybody could turn a radar on. Just to
give you an idea, the other thing you
need to keep in mind as well is if we're
doing any laserg guided bombs, they're
worthless in this weather. We can't
point the laser at something you cannot
see. Enjoy.