# C: MO - Comms Jamming of Stationary Ground Targets
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ffTSj81bjBU
Video ID: ffTSj81bjBU

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be showing you how you can jam
ground units as communication systems.
Now, as you're probably well aware, uh
whenever you do any communications
jamming, now that that's everybody's
favorite feature. I mean, come on, it's
awesome. But one of the problems you
probably have noticed is you want to jam
some kind of battalion radar so it can't
communicate to it subunits. In this
case, we have ourselves an F-16 block
52, which is the correct F-16, and it's
making its way over Nucket here, and
there happens to be a P70 radar there
just kind of hanging out. And of course,
we also have ourselves, you know,
basically a SAM site. And as you can
probably observe, we're cruising right
over the top of it. Now, what I'm going
to do real quickly here is I'm going to
go ahead and pop on all sorts of good
stuff as far as contact emissions here.
We'll do that real quickly. There we go
to contact selected contact and I'll go
ahead and press this. Uh let's go ahead
and unpause here. You'll notice no
emissions coming from the SAM site. Uh
that's basically accurate. Now, when I
come to the P70 here, uh this one, of
course, we kind of tacking away at us.
So, let's go swing to the other side
real fast here. And now we can see very
clearly that the radar on this one.
We'll go and pop that on. Make sure it's
working. Good. It's working. And we have
a very, very good look at our lovely
F-16 here. Target number one. I love how
they do the little note uh you have
little numbers for things now to make
them a little bit easier to keep a
track. Nice touch. You know what I also
really like in this beta? Look at how
smooth that is. I don't know what they
changed, but that is so good. So, right
now, this radar is communicating over to
the SAM site, saying, "Just so you're
aware, there happens to be an enemy
coming our way. Get ready to take a pot
shot at it." This radar station is
actually not transmitting anything. It's
not going to do any of that until it
gets much much closer. Basically, it's
collecting data. So, let's run back to
F-16 real quick. And let's be a jerk.
So, I'm going to go up to my F-16, go to
sensors, and I'm going to turn on my
comm's jamming system now cuz like I
said, I brought one of these. Oh, that's
comm's monitor system. It was supposed
to be a comm's jamming system. Don't
worry, we'll fix it. We'll fix it. We'll
fix it. All right. See? Uh Jama. There
we
go. Much better. Click. So now our F-16
is jamming
communications only communications. Uh
we have nothing actually. We have no
active noise barrage or anything like
that. But now let's switch to the other
team and see what's going on. What
you'll observe here is nothing. There's
been no impact whatsoever. Our lovely
radar site is having no problem
identifying that one. And of course our
SAM site is having no problem getting
ready to take a shot. So we'll go speed
up time a little bit here. I don't want
to go too hard because we're going to
miss our shot. Again, you can see every
15 seconds the radar finishes rotating
around. And what's going to happen in a
few moments, of course, is our SAM2 is
going to flip up its fire control radar,
and it's going to send a nasty SA2 right
up to our lovely F-16, and it's going to
make quite a mess. So, speed up time
just a tiny bit more
hereun. I love the old James Bond
movies. This is fun. So, we enter into
its SAM range and the missiles are on
the way. Tada! Everything worked
perfectly. So, you can see even though
our F-16 was jamming their
communications, they clearly were
talking to each other. Why is this?
Well, it turns out in command, if you
were to select a ground unit such as
this one, you go to comms, there will be
no comms. A unit with no comms is always
in communication. See how that's nasty?
So, you're asking yourself, well, that
that's a problem. Obviously, that means
that we can't cheat and like get away
with this. So, what are we supposed to
do here? Well, the good news is um we
can add coms for the purpose of jamming
coms. Let me demonstrate. Let's go up to
the coms window real quick. I'm going
add a com device here, and I'll do uh
generic. Oh, we can just type in. Oh,
that's nice. Generic. We'll go ahead and
make it a nice little radio here. Uh,
two-way radio. Two radio. I just need
radio. How about just radio, folks?
Let's see. HF. That's really insecure
radio. Oh, let's add that. So, what
we've done here is we've added a UHF VHF
radio. So, let's go run over to this
guy, too. You know, we might as well go
all out here. Come into here. Add com.
Uh, UHF. UHF. I think we did with
unsecure. What? Why are you being weird
to me? Uh, remove com device. I believe
I did this correctly. Uh, hold on a
second. Apparently UHF is in UHF. Not
worried about it. Boop. There we go. And
now we have a secure radio or an
unsecure radio on both these platforms.
Now, this guy right here is tapping away
with his radar. As a matter of fact, I
can uninherit there just to check that
it's working. We haven't picked up the
F16 yet because that's okay. So, let's
go run back to F16 real fast. And let's
go ahead and add back the correct
jamming unit to this time. So, we've
been jammed. I always go back to space
balls there. Oh, no one dare give me the
raspberry. Uh, let's see here. We have
commammer from the 2020s. That seems a
little unfair, but hey, I'm not here to
be nice. I'm in the business to
demonstrate. All right, so we are now
jamming communications
intentionally. Now, this means you're
going to be jamming the very radar radio
that it had a few moments ago. So, let's
go take a look what's going on here. One
of the things you'll notice is my P70
radar is having no difficulty still
acquiring our F-16 here. Now, if I speed
up time a little bit, it continues to
acquire. It continues to acquire. It's
uh you can see it's kind of sitting
there. Why do we have ah see it? See it?
These two stations are no longer in
communication with each other. Do you
see how it's got this little A
underneath and it says no comm? You can
come over here and see the A with no
comm. That means these two units are no
longer on speaking terms. There was a
really messy breakup and they just
refused to talk to each other. No, it's
actually because of R16's fault. The
other thing you'll notice is if I come
up here, I can't see this F-16 at all in
my world map because this radar has now
dropped off the network and I no longer
have the ability to get readings to
central command which is generating this
map. By the way, that means my F-16 can
fly right over the top of them and
they'll never know the wiser. Now, one
of the things you're probably sitting
here going, "Hey, well, that's that's
pretty cool. What if you press
controlV?" Yeah, we'll do that. I can
come up here to this unit. I'm in
controlV mode and notice there's nothing
I can do. I can't actually go in here
and add back the radio and take it back
out. But if you wanted to, for example,
I could actually have taken this radar
and basically told it to um keep on the
hard line, meaning I could still receive
radar signals, but right now everybody's
blind. So, let's go ring over to the
F-16 real quickly here. Speed up some
time here. Speed up some time. F-16's
looking pretty large and in charge. He's
just going to zip right over the top of
an Nucket. Remember, this radar sees him
the whole time, but this SAM site,
because he has his radar off right now,
doesn't even know there's an F-16 flying
over until it sees the contrail with its
camera, in which case it'll probably do
a parting shot. Look at this. Look at
this. No clue in the universe because
there's no communication between these
two units. As you can see, breaking up
communications has a dramatic impact
tactically in many scenarios. And that
is why when you uh read about, you know,
scenarios in the real world, one of the
first things they do is destroy all the
communications hubs, making things like
this possible. Enjoy.