# C: MO - Testing if Helicopters are good Anti-SAM weapons
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fT2Zbd5K6MY
Video ID: fT2Zbd5K6MY

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be answering a question
somebody was having about using
helicopters as the ultimate anti-SAM
platform. Now, we're definitely going to
explore this question in kind of a
creative sort of a way, but one of the
things we want to demonstrate first is
why we're going to attempt to use a
helicopter for the purposes of
destroying a SAM site. So, I have
myself, my lovely F-35A chilling up
here, and it's equipped with the latest
and greatest of JSLs and of course, this
fabulous radar. and we're going to go
ahead and try to take a pot shot at this
little SAM setup I've got here. So, in
the SAM setup, of course, we have an
SA22. It's a Pancier SM. Of course, we
have our Triumph and S400 SA21. And of
course, we have a big bird radar to keep
an eye on things. So, what I'm going to
do is say, hey, go ahead and take a shot
at that one. And, you know, while you're
at it, go ahead and take a shot at this
one. Now, keep in mind, these aren't
jamms or anything along those lines.
This is just good oldfashioned
conventional J cells kind of a thing.
So, we're going to go ahead and release
those. And I'm going to go ahead and
order this guy to actually loiter at
this particular point. The reason I have
to order him to loiter is because if he
gets any closer, he's going to get an
S400 basically up his tailpipe because
um stealth does not work against an S400
unless you have a lot of jamming
capability. But regardless, this is
going to demonstrate kind of the point
right away here. I don't know why you're
still moving. Uh where you going? Stay
away from that Samite, please, cuz if
you get in I got shot down. No, the
F-35, as you can see, I was absolutely
worthless there. The J cells got
intercepted about right here, if you
could see it. that was about 26 mi away.
Completely worthless, a waste of time.
So, we're going to do is we're going to
try to use a helicopter to do the same
job. Uh helicopters, of course, have one
massive advantage, and that's the fact
that they can operate extraordinarily
low. The other thing we're going to be
doing is, of course, with scenario
features and settings, we're going to
make sure advanced terrain type is
turned on for this particular purpose.
So, what's this all about? Now, if I
hold my mouse over something, you're
going to notice that I have an elevation
of 1,247
ft. You're going to notice the fact that
has a height of 16 ft and a skyline of
1,263 ft. Now, if you put that math
together in your head, it's not going to
make any sense, but it actually does.
What that tells us is we have helicopter
hiding places, aka big trees and little
things between it. So, for a helicopter
lineup to try this out, we've got a
bunch of different helicopters to help
us today. We have the RH66A, which isn't
a real helicopter. I called it the Ninja
helicopter. We have the AH64E is the
Apache Guardian. This thing is fabulous.
It's a VTOR helicopter as far as I'm
concerned. We're about to prey. We have
the EC665
Tiger. This is another fabulous
helicopter. I call this one the Tiger
with the laser pointer. We have the
Hokum and barely knew them. This is the
coaxial killer. And of course, we have
the Z10, the Zulu 10 there, the Fierce
Thunderbolt, Beijing Bug Zapper. So, we
have a good little spread here. So, to
try this the first time, we're going to
go ahead and get the RAH66. And the
reason I want to use the RA6 for this
one first is because this is the
stealthiest of the helicopter family. It
doesn't actually have the best weaponry
for this particular purpose. We'll see
that in a minute. But the reality is
this is going to be the one that's most
likely to get close enough to actually
do the deed. That being said, it only
carries hellfire weapons, which is going
to severely limit its range capability
here. All right, let's do this. So, what
I'm going to do is a couple things.
First, I'm going to set my speed to
loiter, minimum altitude, terrain
following, land cover masking. Now, if
you do that in that order, your
helicopter will get itself as low as
mechanically possible, which by the way
is not as low as it sounds. All right,
so our helicopter is going to go down.
One of the things I want to share with
you, of course, is I like to pick this
particular region of Canada for this one
cuz it's, you know, kind of mountainous.
And if you actually take a look here
structurally, you can see that he is
operating very, very, very low, but that
the terrain, although it has some
detail, you know, it's not an excessive
level of detail here. So, you get kind
of a feel for it. All right, our
helicopter is on the way. So the big
thing here is that F-35 did us a huge
flavor and it basically identified the
targets. That's cool except the fact
that we still have to detect the targets
in order to safely go ahead and engage
them here. So we're going to take
advantage of this valley again right out
of Hokum versus Comanche. Actually, I
think it was Hokum versus Apache. I
think it was the Janes game, but I think
it was uh Comanche 4 was the one that I
really cut my teeth on helicopters.
Remember that back was that 1999 or
something like that? That was a couple
years ago. Either way, so we're closing
in on the target here. Trying to take
advantage of the train as best we can.
Keep in mind these SAMs weapons are very
very quick acting. Basically, if they
see this helicopter, they will get a
shot out. This is a stealth helicopter.
Uh it doesn't mean it's a stealth
helicopter, however. And as a matter of
fact, if I come down here, you will see
that its total stealth capability is uh
it's not great. It's actually not great
at all. You can see here it is about as
good as an F-35, but it's a lot slower
moving. So, that kind of helps out a
bit. All right, we're getting into range
here. Now, the big thing here is we need
to get so close that when we fire, the
travel time of our weapons is basically
minimum. Keep in mind, we are traveling
extraordinarily low right now. We're
about 20 ft above ground level. We're
trying to hide in the trees, which
unfortunately, since it's mixed forest.
That's only 16 ft of trees. So, there
are 4T of clearance underneath this
helicopter as we're kind of creeping
along here. Now, this is where we get to
the fun part. And this is always my
favorite part. All right. All right.
Okay. Okay, theoretically, we're in
range right now, but the reality is is
there's a bit of a hill between us of
1,283 ft. We're down here at 1060 and
they're up on the hill at 1135. So,
we're going to have to go up in order to
engage them. That is your first mistake.
If we try to pop up now, we're going to
get a real big surprise. But, I'm going
to do it anyway for science. All right,
let's come to a little hover right here.
Delightful. Point him in this direction.
We're going to order him to hover. He's
just going to kind of hang out for a
half a second. Good. He's hanging out.
He's hanging out. He's looking good. and
we're going to have him slowly rise
upward, unload his payload, and then try
to get the heck out of the way. So,
we'll bring him up to about call it 60
630 ft. We'll get him destroyed
instantly. We bring up to 60 ft above
ground level. So, he's going to slowly
float upwards here. Whoop! New keyboard.
That's not the minus key anymore. All
right, I'm just slowing down time a
little bit here. So, we have no line of
sight to any of these, I don't think. I
think they're still on the other side of
a hill. Yes, they're still on the other
side of a hill. Boo. All right, let's go
bring them up to 100 ft above ground
level. This is highly dangerous. I would
never do this with a helicopter in a
flight sim. All right. What did that do
for us? I don't think that got things
any better for us. Uh, let's see. It's
an imprecise target, which again, it's
an improvement of some kind. Uh, we have
a laser designator. We can come up a
little bit higher. Oh, this is going to
be awful. This is going to get us
destroyed right out. Little higher. A
little higher. That's interesting. Um,
we're going to have to actually start
creeping forward here. We've managed to
get ourselves just high enough, but I do
see that there's a little bit of height
here. And again, that will should get us
above. So, let's send them back down.
Whoops. Let's send them back down to a
minimum altitude land cover masking.
We're going to set it as minimum as
possible. And we're going to have them
creep forward. Oh, this is going to get
bad. This is going to be awful. But
we're going to try. This is science,
right? And again, we're picking the most
stacked helicopter we can possibly stack
here. All right. Careful. Now, he's
making his way up the side of this
mountain here. And again, there's a
little bit of trees he's going to try to
duck behind. Like I said, absolutely
stack the deck is Oh, pause, pause,
pause, pause, pause, pause. All right,
we can have a visual here. So,
unfortunately, we cannot engage them
because we are too low. So, this S400,
if we can see the S400, they can see us.
So, this is going to basically be fire
the missiles and duck back behind the
mountain as fast as you can. So, we're
going to go and order a hover and we're
going to go ahead get a little bit of
altitude. We need at least 60 feet to
fire. This is going to go bad. I feel so
sorry for this Comanche. They don't make
these things anymore. They never made
them. That's was kind of the fight part.
All right, here we go.
One, two. Uh, I don't think we have line
of sight here. Nope, we have no line of
sight there. How about this guy? And we
have no line of sight there. All right,
we're just going to have to do the best
we can with what we have kind of a
thing. Uh, this is going to go so bad.
We're so doomed. We're so doomed. All
right, get a little bit higher. Again,
this is just like a Oh, there we go. We
were able to fire shot off. So, our
problem here, of course, is um this is
an old school hellfire, which means when
we do engage with it, we have to
actually get decked down. Um, we're
using a laser pointer to keep an eye on
it. But one of the things someone should
observe here is watch this.
We scored our hits. And now you can see
here comes the second one right now.
Scored a hit again. So that thing is
completely crippled. I mean, we might
not have got its radar, but we're going
to pop a couple more into it. Oh, I also
noticed the fact this guy's over here,
so might as well fire a couple over
there. This Comanche wins the prize. Uh,
he is absolutely absolutely winning the
prize here. And you can see this is just
leisurely destruction. Now, you're
probably sitting here going, "Why on
earth was that helicopter able to do
that? Wouldn't they have just fired a
missile at him?" And the answer is this
platform has a minimum range that we
managed to get ourselves inside of with
Ninja Helicopter here. Now, Ninja
Helicopter, as you probably noticed, is
just pounding away at the S400. There's
no AAA coming at him. There's no jerk
with a shoulder launched, whatever,
taking pot shots out. Oh, there we go.
Now, the pancer is jumping in. I was
waiting for this, buddy. Where were you?
This Oh, he got hit, too. Okay, so the
Oh, Comanche wins. Comanche wins. they
get the prize. All right, Ninja
helicopter. Um, I would send you back to
base just the way you are right now. But
if we do that, you're going to get
yourself comloed. So, uh, we're going to
go ahead and, uh, manual override that
sucker and, uh, just get out of here.
Just get out of here. Get out of here,
ninja helicopter. You did a beautiful
job. You demonstrated everything that I
needed you to demonstrate in this video.
The stupidest thing I can do, by the
way, is order him to fly back home right
now, cuz if I do that, he will um,
stupidly basically climb up into the
range of the pansier and get himself
shot down, which is uh, going to be
hilariously not funny. All right, go
back home. So, we still have the rest of
everything and um you know, we I think
we've demonstrated a point that it is
totally possible to pull this off, but
um let's go ahead and get with a
different helicopter this time to kind
of prove the concept. All right, let's
grab ourselves uh we'll go into here.
The ninja helicopter. Good job. Good
job, Ninja. You get a gold prize. Let's
go ahead and grab the tiger with a laser
pointer this time. This is going to be a
little different because it is a very
unique weapon here. And this is one of
the reasons why I like it. Let's go
speed up time a little bit here. It also
has better sensors. Uh, the command
sheet was cool, but without that really
really like the RFI like you get on the
Guardian. Um, we're missing out on some
kind of technology there. And should be
Whoa.
I'm going to be doing that for the next
three months. All right, let's do it.
So, this is the Tiger. Oh, this is a
fabulous helicopter. Again, it's a
two-seater. Very, very similar to what
we saw earlier. Minimum altitude,
terrain falling, land cover, loiter. All
right, so we've ordered a helicopter to
kind of get on its way. This helicopter
is a little different because it has
some other stuff on board which makes it
a little bit easier to use. A lot of
defensive equipment to kind of keep an
eye on things. It's also got really nice
little night vision goggles, missile
warning system, pretty much everything
under the sun, but it still doesn't have
the RFI, so that's going to make this a
little bit more difficult of an
engagement. Now, keep in mind, we are
operating at night. By the way, this is
not a daytime op. So, we're going to use
exactly the same philosophy as we did
last time. We're going to maintain very
low altitude for most of our journey
here, trying to take advantage of all
the land covered camera. We're taking
advantage of valleys. This is a lot
harder to do over water obviously. Like
you can't do this over water. You're
just going to get slapped out of the
sky. That's again why I picked picked
this particular region because it makes
it kind of more fun kind of a thing like
that, especially for people who like to
fly these kind of operations in games.
So again, we're staying low. We're very
very very very low. Let's see here.
Yeah, 20 ft above ground level. So
again, you can imagine there's trees 4
feet underneath this helicopter. Problem
is we still have to acquire the target
and that's going to be probably the
problem. But we're going to try the same
exact philosophy we did with our
Comanche buddy. Try to get so close that
it can't get in. Oh, that was bad.
That's bad news.
Missile. Missile. No. No. We're still
getting tracked. Yeah, we're busted.
You You need to get a little lower. You
needed to get a little lower now. Uh,
that's bad news. Of course, that's going
to be hostile. And of course, they did
not have enough time to take that shot
when we were going between trees,
basically. So, um, we got lucky. We got
very lucky. And especially if I click on
this one. Which one is this? This is H.
Oh, yeah. That's definitely the our
lovely friend, the um see that's the
S400. All right, we're going to sneak up
to the same spot. If it worked for
Comanche, why won't it work for us right
now? Notice we have a pretty long range
with this weapon. So, um what we're
going to do is we're going to slow down
just a little bit. Actually, let me
delete the way points. Try not to delete
the unit. All right, we're going to go
to a hover and we're going to pop up to
100 ft above ground level. Again,
careful. Do it slowly. Hey, guess what?
I hit the calculator button three more
times.
That would have been bad. All right,
let's slow down and I'll let this
helicopter do his thing here. All right,
come up just a little bit. Just a little
bit. Just a little bit. All right, he's
about 100 ft above ground level. We know
this is here. So, we're going to go
ahead and pop a couple of those. Those
are those new ones. I'll bring up the
stats on that in case you're curious.
There it is. Kind of looks It's
interesting. Like, it's interesting.
It's a very, very fast weapon. It has a
really big charge on it. And that's one
of the things that's nice. It also has a
really good seeker. All right. So, we're
going to pop those off like that. And
now what we're hoping to do is trigger
the S400 into firing here. And it's not
Oh, the S400 did fire and it did a
beautiful job. Oh, we got the radar,
though. We got the radar. Hey, look,
more calculators.
All right, so um we got the thing we
could see. So, we're kind of at a loss
here because we did not detect the SAM
site. And without knowing where the SAM
site is, we're kind of in trouble. As a
matter of fact, we still know that guy's
out there. So, I'm going to send him
back to minimum altitude, and I'm going
to get a buddy to help us out here
because um it's going to be really tough
to do this without some kind of like
queueing is really the way to do it. So,
let's go ahead and grab ourselves. Uh
oh, H58
Ka. That's it. Yeah. Yeah, I got it.
Nice. Blue flash striker. I like that.
Let's get the one that actually can see
though. Uh we'll grab this one. Yeah,
that's fine. We just need sensors
basically. That's what I'm hoping for.
And again, he's going to be way too high
up and basically get himself killed
before the party even starts. But ward
order minimum altitude order loiter and
we'll hope that he can get his head back
down before he gets about 10 different
missiles launched at him. Down.
He'd be panicking.
I don't think we have radar on here. No,
we do not have radar. Whoa. Go down. Go
down. Go down.
Oh, it didn't work. It didn't matter.
So, as you can see, our Kyway did a nice
job of acquiring the other SAM, which
now means our little leot tiger with a
laser pointer now actually has a shot.
We actually acquired both SAMs. And it
takes us into two seconds before we can
actually engage. So you will get two as
well. And fire.
And again, we're basically lobbing this
over a hill is kind of another way to
kind of visualize this. And of course,
what's going to happen here is the
Pancier, who now knows there's incoming
missiles, is going to casually and quite
humorously slap those out of the sky.
Yep. Yep. You can see it's engaging with
its 30 mm there. It's not going to
matter.
I think Tiger with a laser pointer also
gets gold start today. Look at that.
S400 is absolutely slapped. Keep in mind
an S400. If you just hit it, it nothing
happens. There's like plenty of things
in the pants here. As you can see, it's
still happily firing at the incoming
weapons. And um we did not get it. So,
we're going to have to actually both of
you get one more. You're going to have
to share everybody because they don't
have enough missiles for all of you.
There we go. We'll go ahead and fire a
couple more of those.
And again, we're inside of the minimum
range of the S400, so it can't do much
to us. And we're going to pop both of
those. And he's got to RTB. And of
course, if he RTBs, he's going to get
himself blasted. So, I'm going to grab
him. I'm just going to do that because
nobody wants to see the tiger get shot
down. All right, as you can see, the
pants here did a really good job and we
didn't actually hit. I think that was a
bit of a dud there. Bummer. So, as you
can see, it is totally a viable strategy
when you're in terrain that actually
supports it. But, um, what I want to do
real quick is I want to get the Beijing
bug zapper. I'm just curious. I'm just
curious. Again, this is for science,
right? So, let's go get Beijing bug
zapper. Keep in mind, we've softened up
the target a little bit here. It doesn't
mean anything for us, but we'll
demonstrate doing this the wrong way and
you'll see just how good it was using
that sneaky terrain stuff. There it is.
Come on, Beijing. Would you like some
more calculators? All right, Beijing bug
zapper. Here we go. Oh, this thing's so
cool. All right, let's go. All right,
look at our range. It's plenty. We can
fire at any time. So, we're going to
fire right now and grab both of these.
Um, each one of you is going to get
eight fire. Now, this is a such a
different philosophy as far as weaponry
goes. Again, everything else was like,
you know, these little tiny short range
things that weigh a couple hundred
pounds. This thing's like, watch this.
Hey, more calculators. Um, this thing's
going to go ahead and fire. Um, exactly.
I got muscle memory. Uh, mandatory data
link. Oh, no. We missed our mandatory
data link. Whoopsies. Let me fix that.
All right. After filling up with the
data links for a couple minutes there, I
could not find it quickly. I know it's
there. Just have to poke around. In case
you were curious, by the way, we were up
to 36 calculators open at the time. All
right. So, we're going to proceed
directly towards our targets. Again,
we're using the same philosophy. It's a
little different this time because what
we've done is we basically reduced our
altitude substantially like just like we
did before. We're also approaching the
target directly. So, you can kind of see
sort of the sideby-side comparisons if
you want to see kind of what's going to
be different here. I'm trying not to
speed up time too much because if I get
in the sweet spot of these things,
they're going to mangle me. Um, very,
very carefully reduce time. See? See? I
got it right that time. And of course,
again, without any RFI or anything like
that we have in the Guardian, we're
going to be a little bit limited in
detection, but it's still going to work
fine. I promise. The Pansier, I believe,
still can fire. I don't think the S400
can fire anymore, but um we'll see. Like
I said, we've got 16 missiles, so that's
plenty. They're both going, like I said,
they're going to have to learn to share,
but I think it should go perfectly fine
once we get there. Keep in mind, there's
also what they call the spike and loss,
which is basically a um fire and forget
weapon. It's awesome. All right, let's
get a little closer. And we have line of
sight on the S400. Again, we're just
kind of creeping along here, but we can
go ahead and take advantage of the
technology while we have it. So, we have
60 feet is the minimum. Uh you're going
to actually, let's just be smart. Shift
F1. Drag a box. Um, let's see. Select
both of you. Select this one. Eight.
Allocate. It's a lot of weapons. All
right, let's go. Pop up to a little bit
higher altitude here. We'll jump up to
100 ft. AGL
100. That makes no sense. We got to be
terrain following. There we go. Weapons
away. Of course, the latest and
greatest. You can fire basically the
entire salvo to alpha strike right out
of battletech basically or mass missile
massacre. So, whatever you prefer. And
you can see there's our radar. Flips on.
makes it a little bit easier. And I
don't think this has got much left to
it. So yeah, basically there's 10 more
things to blow up here. And I'm
basically going to swing in and use the
cannon to do the rest. But again, that's
going to be perfectly fun for us in a
moment. This guy kind of surprises me,
but knowing how shocked and terrified
the crew is. Like it doesn't surprise
me. And again, you can see that they
still managed to Uh-oh.
Guess who was still operational.
Didn't go so well. Again, shame on me
for assuming that the thing was broken.
But it also lets you know just how
incredibly effective helicopters are.
Now, there's one more thing we're going
to test real fast. And I'm kind of
curious about this one. And that, of
course, I've been joking about the
Guardian the whole time, but one of my
favorite uses of the Guardian. And
again, we're going to cheat. We're going
to cheat. It's It's okay. We're going to
cheat. Hey, look. No calculators. All
right. Uh, we're going to cheat. And
now, the reason we're going to cheat
here is because we're basically going to
get a little bit closer than we would
mechanically be able to in a short
period of time. It would require quite a
bit of maneuvering on our part to get as
close as we're going to get. So, like I
said, we're going to cheat a bit. I said
it that again, right? All right, let's
minimum altitude terrain following lane
cover masking. Sounds good to me. And
what we're going to do is uh one for the
money, two for the show, three to get
ready, and four to go. Right here.
Hello.
Surprise. So, the fun thing here, of
course, is uh we're a little bit closer.
And one of the things that the Apache
has, basically, they call this an aerial
weapon system, AWS. It's a big old
cannon. I think it's 25mm if I remember.
Uh let me see. Is it 20? I got to prove
myself here. 25 millimeter to always
have 30 millimeter w. Um, so the cool
thing here is it does have a cannon on
it. And the cannon is an aerial weapon
system, meaning it's not accurate. And
it also means you got a range of uh on a
good day 20 ft. So what we're going to
do is we're going to creep up on this
radar site. And it just occurred to me
we're going to get shot down because um
the stupid pancier is going to get us
first. So let's go ahead and
inconvenience this right away because we
don't want to give it the time of day.
And then what I'm going to do is I'm
going to use this. And then we're going
to use the cannon on the S400 because
I'm such a jerk like that. Fire.
There's the guy I was looking for. This
is the one I was actually trying to get.
Look at the air speed. Look how fast
these weapons travel. And again, you can
see very clearly the fact that um the
Pansier no problem inconveniencing that.
Let's go sneak over here. We're going to
try to get in the minimum range. Dude,
don't turn around. Don't turn around. If
you put your beam to him, he's just
going to hit you from the side.
I told you he'd hit you from the side.
Sigh. He wasn't listening. All right,
we'll send another one his way. And
coming over here, I'm just going to use
the lovely M230 here because this it's
just fun. It's just fun. All right, get
a little closer. Use the M230. Look at
this. Look at this. Look at this. Oh,
cheap shot. All right, I told you these
are good helicopters. All right, so
we're going to close into basically
point blank range, which is the
stupidest thing you can do with anything
that shoots down aircraft for fun. And
we're basically going to use the 30 mm
cannon here. Uh, we can use this, but
that's too easy. Uh, let's see here.
Horizontal distance. I have to get
within 6. Oh my goodness, that's close.
Let's h jump up to 120 ft here. Yeah,
not very high. Oh boy, this is stupid.
This Oh, that's what I was waiting for.
And as you can see, it did not stop them
from uh firing. What is this? An SA6?
Yeah, it's an SA16. So, our Apache is
doomed. Uh there's simply no way we're
going to get close enough before some
jerk with basically a shoulder launch
something is going to end this fight
pretty quick. But we'll watch it happen
anyway. Get closer. Get another one.
Fire. Fire. Fire. Fire. Oh, it's not
going to happen, is it? Well, we can
fire that. What do you mean do not use
Oh. Oh, I see what I did wrong. Oh, we
have to tell them to actually be allowed
to use guns. Yes, you may use guns.
Fire. Now I just got to point blank him
with a missile. You missed. You had one
job, bro. One job. All right, switch
over to the cannon. Use the cannon. Use
the cannon. Don't disappoint me.
The range is still too far away. Okay,
point blank range. Got it. Point blank
range. Oh, there he goes. And as you can
see, helicopters do work. They just
require a lot of really good terrain.