# C: MO - Destroying a SAM Site the 'old fashioned' way
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gLJQE8FhdJw
Video ID: gLJQE8FhdJw

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at attacking
the S400 system, both the expensive way
as well as the cheap way. Now, this was
inspired by, of course, doing some
reading the other day about, you know,
some ways that they've been engaging
these in different conflicts around the
world. And I said, you know what, that
sounds like a pretty good point. Let's
see what we can do with it. So, we're
going to do things the expensive way
first. And I have myself a B-52H
cruising pretty low because the S400
battery we're going to be engaging is in
perfect position. It's got its own
little Nebo M here. It's a good crew.
It's got 12 launchers. It's got a
pancier, one of the newest Greyhounds
ready to go and everything is pretty
much solid. So, uh, let's go ahead and
do the deed here. So, I'm going to go
ahead and close this. Shift F1. I'm
going to drag a box around here and
we're ready to fire. So, the key thing
here is obviously the expensive target
is going to be the Greyhound. So, I'm
going to go ahead and grab this one.
We're going to allocate six each. Not
the Greyhound, rather the Growler, the
S400 here. And we're going to go ahead
and give him a couple extra as well. All
right, B52. do that voodoo that you do.
And as you'll see here, the B-52 does
everything perfectly. It uh drops off um
about a billion dollars worth of
taxpayer money uh for the purposes of
engaging, like I said, about three
different targets here. Now, these are
pretty cool missiles because uh they are
stealth missiles. And uh they do a
really, really, really, really, really,
really good job. Like I've been
impressed with these time and time again
as they launch. So, what I'm going to do
now is actually turn my volume down just
a tiny bit so I can hear my L sound
think. and we'll let those weapons uh
kind of get on their way. Obviously, the
S400 is not engaging them yet because
they're on the other side of the
horizon. So is my B-52. So, I'm going to
go ahead and hide my B-52. He's done a
delightful job there. And um they're
just going to kind of cruise their way
towards the target here. Rip over a long
island here. I'm sure it would make
people very, very nervous. One of the
things I wish is that Tac view had
slightly better terrain because I don't
quite get the uh you know ups and downs
and like trees and stuff, but obviously
this is going to vary based on all sorts
of different things. Of course, you're
all looking really carefully off my left
saying, "Uh oh, he's got something
special planned." Of course I do. Why
would I not? All right, here we go. So,
we're going to come ripping over the top
here. What I'm going to do is actually
flip over to a god's eye view. And the
reason I want to do this is you really
got to you got to see this in action to
like understand how incredibly good this
surface air missile system is. So
they're going to come tearing up here
the Connecticut Valley here. Hartford
would be right down here. You see little
twist where the river is. Got some
mountains on the sides like your
Ellington's and like go a little bit
north. You got Awam Kong and stuff like
that. But watch this. So again now you
can watch this thing literally spitting
missiles out like they're free. And we
got one. We got two hits. We got three.
We got four. We got five. And as you
probably observe, we did not destroy the
S400.
As a matter of fact, um I don't even
think we got the radar, which is uh
embarrassing. So, if I open up my losses
and expenditures, you can see that we
got two of the launchers. So, this S
S400 battery is completely operable. And
um all that money I just wasted was a
big big waste. So, nothing I mean,
obviously, it did damage and scared them
and wasted missiles, but the reality is
the exchange there was not a good
exchange. So, let's go ahead and reopen
the scenario here and um let's be a
little more uh I guess I'm going to use
the word pragmatic, but that's not
actually accurate. So, what I have here,
what is this? Oh, that thing was
launched when I first set up the
mission. That just gives you an idea of
the engagement time of the system. So,
what I'm going to do here is I'm going
to go run down here and open this up.
And as you can see, I have a single
helicopter. Helicopter. Now, we've used
helicopters to blow up SAM sites before.
So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to
launch my helicopter here. It's going to
take a few moments to get them in the
air. And this helicopter is a non-combat
helicopter because I've got better plans
for this particular chap here. And uh
we're going to use it in a very
aggressive sort of fashion. But again,
like I said, pragmatic sometimes wins.
There he goes. You, sir, need to get
yourself to minimum altitude immediately
and slow down as well because if he
tries to climb, he's going to instantly
be engaged. So, one of the cool things
about this part of Connecticut is that
we have the Connecticut Valley where
Africa basically snapped off. Now you're
sitting there going, "Aha, he's just
going to be using terrain for the
purposes of concealing his attack." Um,
well, yeah, but uh, give me a minute.
Give me a minute. I'm doing Let me do my
thing here. So, what I'm going to do is
I'm going to launch my helicopter and
I'm going to keep him at stupidly low
altitude and I'm going to creep up on
that system. Remember, this is a
non-combat helicopter. Uh, this one, uh,
we don't have any weapons on board, but
as you can probably tell over there on
the right, and I apologize for not
making my resolution different here, but
like I want to keep some surprise for
you. This is a cargo helicopter, so you
know that I'm carrying something. So,
let's get a little bit closer. That's a
little better. And we'll go sneak in
here. And again, we're staying on this
side of the valley. For those of you
who've uh ever seen me do flight videos
around like Avon and stuff like that,
you know the size of the mountain on the
right there. It's not that big. All
right, that actually looks perfectly
fine. Uh you can go ahead and I'm
actually going to pause time here for a
moment. I'm going to right click on you
and um would you be so kind as to unload
that cargo that you're carrying?
Everybody's going, "All right, what what
laserg guided ridiculousness has he got
on board this thing?" Uh, I don't.
[laughter]
You'll see. All right. It's going to
take him a hot second to unload the
cargo. If I've learned anything in this
game, it's to be very patient when it
comes to unloading cargo. If it doesn't
find that exact spot on the ground
that's precisely flat within 2 and 1/2°,
it refuses to drop the cargo.
There we go. All right. You need to go
back home. And I'm not going to
accidentally get you destroyed in the
process of uh running back home here.
There we go. Stay nice and low, minimum
altitude. Hide in every mountain,
valley, and peak that you possibly can
get yourself into. Just just get out of
here. And of course, we've dropped off
our lovely, lovely cargo package here.
Now, this is 120 mm border. Uh each one
of these rounds costs about 500 US. Um
it's not cheap by any means. And of
course, we have a crew of lovely Marines
who are basically going to have to
handle this. But that's okay. And you'll
notice we're completely out of range
here. So, unfortunately, for us to get
into range here, we need to get within
five nautical miles. So, I'm going to go
ahead and drag five nautical miles. Did
I say five or am I way off place here?
Three and a half nautical miles. Thank
you. So, we'll come right here. That
looks like a good spot. So, I'm going to
go ahead and order them to hoof it.
Sorry, folks, but um you're going to
have to move.
Obviously,
if you take a look at the current time,
you can see this was not exactly a quick
hoofing, but uh that's okay because u
we're going to have our fun in a second.
Now, in command modern operations, as
everybody knows, there's no CRAM yet. Um
so, that's actually much in our favor.
As a matter of fact, I'd say we're in
range now. All right, you folks can go
ahead and pause for a second here. I I
think we're fine. I think we're fine.
I'm going to go ahead and delete that
one. Press the lovely I'm in God's eye
view, of course. F1. Go ahead. Actually,
I'm just press regular F1 here. Go ahead
and do one of those and everybody's
going to come to a stop. Service.
So, what we're going to do is we're
going to start firing some mortar shells
here. And uh quite hilariously, as
you'll notice, the mortar shells are
very, very, very challenging for non
CRAM artillery to do anything about. So,
as you can see, our little shells are
just doing their thing. Uh let's see,
how much money are we up to? I think
we're up to about uh 3,500
4,000. Here comes the next one. This is
going to be 4,500.
And uh what do we got here? We're going
to speed up time here cuz we're having a
fun time. Why are you still moving?
Also, the fight is over. All right, we
might as well get the radar, too. I
mean, we must be overachievers here. Go
ahead, guys. D fire.
And I misspoke. We do have CRAM now, but
um it's a little different. All right.
So, our 120 mm motor patrol did a
beautiful job. They blew up millions and
millions and millions and millions of
dollars worth of equipment at the cost
of let's see here. Uh, we got
everything. Uh, let's see. They fired
one missile. It cost us 42 mortar
shells. So, let's go ahead and get my
quackulator out here. That's easy.
That's going to be $21,000.
So, u pretty good portion of my salary
in a year. And, uh, they've lost the
million-dollar system. Now, what's
interesting is if you poke around on
this propaganda piece here, this is
actually something that has happened
before. And like I said, that was kind
of the inspiration for it. So, what I'm
trying to say here is when you're
planning attacks or you're doing
something, always look for the cheap
option whenever you're trying to achieve
a specific thing. Um, every once in a
while, you get a scenario where you can
use naval artillery to do the same
thing. Some instance, you get a scenario
where you could get a guy with a laser
spotter to do it. And these might not be
the intention of the actual designer of
the scenario, but that doesn't mean it
doesn't work. Enjoy.