# C:MO - Decoy Ladder Jamming
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hj4gbSDi03w
Video ID: Hj4gbSDi03w

Hello everyone. In today's video, I'm
going to show you a quick trick as far
as how to use decoys more effectively.
Now, one of the things you need to know
about decoys, and again, I got my little
squad here sneaking up on this radar, is
the fact that decoys will try to stay
out the altitude that you fire them.
Now, think about that for half a second
here. That would mean if I'm trying to
engage a target that's on the ground,
such as a SAM, if my decoy is launched
at an altitude higher than the SAMs can
shoot, it'll never bother with it.
Likewise, if you have a active jamming
decoy like my lovely ADM 160 here, that
also means that it's not really going to
be doing much jamming for us except at
the altitude that you launch it at. So,
that creates an interesting problem for
us. So, what I would like to do, of
course, is I'd like to go ahead and
engage this target down here on the
ground. And you can see it's just
hanging out. I'm flip on the radar for a
second here and I see if I get a better
view. And ah, of course, there's got to
be a SAM site. And it's got to be a
nasty one that's going to do all sorts
of damage to us if we're not careful.
So, it's the SAM is the one I want to
hit. and it's a mobile which makes it
small but it doesn't mean it's any less
lethal. I want to put that thing out of
commission. So let's do it. So I'm going
to grab myself my decoy launcher here.
And the first thing I'm going to do is
I'm going to launch myself one decoy.
And now this decoy is going to be just a
little bit in front where we're going to
go ahead and launch our attack vector.
I'm actually going to take these two and
drop them down to loiter speed. Now what
I don't get here is the loiter speed is
like 250. Are you kidding me? Loer speed
ain't 250. Loiter speed could be a lot
slower than that if it had to be. The
other thing I'm going to do is I'm going
to now drop him down to a different
altitude and I'm going to fire a second
decoy. Let's go ahead and slow down a
little bit here. Got to come down.
That's about 30,000 ft. And that's about
25. We'll call that close enough. I'll
control F1 and go ahead and pop another
one. And now what we're going to do is
we're going to come down to our next
altitude. Now, usually I try to do it a
little bit lower. That's going to be
about 20,000 ft. And that will be for my
next decoy right there. Go ahead and
fire. Come down a little bit lower here.
That's about 16,000. That'll be my next
decoy right here. Go ahead and pop
another one of those. And we'll come
down to about 12,000 ft. Actually, we
want to keep coming down here. Keep
coming down, my friend. All right,
there's my next one. I'll go ahead and
pop another one. And again, all I'm
doing here is creating a vertical ladder
of decoys. All right, let's come a
little bit lower. 9,000 ft. That looks
pretty good for my next one. Let's go
ahead and pop this one. Remember, these
are active jamming decoys also. And
that's about a little bit lower. There
we go. Right there. And this is going to
be my minimum altitude decoy. Actually,
I probably go a little bit lower than
that. More
[Laughter]
All right, there we go. 2,000 ft. That's
getting pretty low for the current
weather conditions. Look at that. I'm
actually too low. Uh, we'll have to make
that above ground level so that it can
get higher enough to actually fire that
last one. Come on up. We'll order him
back up to 12 grand, I guess. Go ahead.
There he goes. Go ahead and fire that
last one for me, please. Ah, he's done.
All right, you can go home. Okay.
Excellent. So, what we've done here is
we have now launched a ladder. And if I
pull my screen to the side, I'm tipping
to the right, by the way. I don't know
why. You'll notice that I am now doing a
vertical line of jamming because
remember jamming is line of sight. That
means now that I've created my little
ladder of doom here, um, anything that
is trying to shoot through this ladder
of doom has jamming support. And
likewise, our HQ is going to be awfully
busy. So, what I'm going to do here is
I'm going to grab my Growler. I'm going
to order him to go ahead and fire up his
sensors here. We're gonna do some
offensive ECM. And that's just going to
make this a more effective attack for
our strike here. And the other thing I'm
going to do too is I'm going to drop
these both down to kind of moderate
altitude here about 20,000 ft. So they
are in the thick of it. And now by thick
of it I'm referring to the fact that um
basically the nice part of the ladder if
you want to kind of think about it. I'm
going to call this the ladder jam. It's
just kind of fun. So we've got a lot of
electronic warfare going on here. But
this is going to be fun. So I'm going to
grab my F-18 here. I'm going to press
the shift one key. And of course we're a
little out of range here. What I like to
do is fire a couple of them. Uh targets.
I don't know enough of it, but that's
okay. So, we're going to go and queue up
two of those because no doubt he's going
to try to take a pot shot at one of
these. All right, come down a little bit
there. That's about 20,000 ft. Now, I'm
a very tempting target. Go ahead and
launch our last two here. One of the
things I like to do is to take a pot
shot at the other thing, and when the
missile leaves the rail, he'll turn his
radar on, and then it becomes a free
shot. Cheap shot. Cheap shot. So, as you
can see here, um, basically our F-18 is
now loading his little rack here. And of
course, our E18 is doing a lovely job.
Look at this. Do you see how our
missiles, you can see very clearly now
in 3D, are flying through the nasty
jamming. And unfortunately, this makes
it much more interesting for a guy on
the ground to be able to basically
identify the target now up through all
this nastiness that is now raining down
on him. It's not going to say that he's
going to get a shot off, but
geometrically speaking, you can see just
how hard of a shot this is going to be.
So, let's go ahead and watch the
fireworks. And would you look at that?
Not a single SAM was ever fired because
that jamming was so complete in its
ladder shape that it basically prevented
any of that firework from getting
through. Now, I am not satisfied. As you
can see very very clearly here, we've
disabled the j the radar basically of
this thing. And of course, we're still
being nice and irritating with our
jammers. Unfortunately, our argams did
not do the deed here, which is
unfortunate, but that's going to happen
sometimes. So, we have a couple choices.
We can certainly sneak up on this thing
and try to get a cheap shot on it
without cannon. Cannon fire is fun, by
the way. Look at this. Look at this in
3D. This is just scattered. Or we can do
the lazy thing, which is what I'm going
to do cuz why would you ever do a
mission like this with a single
airplane? Let's be honest here. And
let's get some in-flight
rearming. We can't do this in the real
world yet. Nice. Reload. All right,
let's finish the job. I just hate the
idea of a job that's just not done
completely, you know. All right, there
we go. Go ahead and fire the second
shot. There it goes. And you can see
it's locked right onto his radar. And
bam. And bam. As you can see, our little
ladder technique with our spread out
jammers at multiple altitude plus all
this other good stuff relied gave us
this really, really amazing electrical
edge, which made it so much simpler and
safer to take the shot. And again, at
any time, I could have come down with
the cannon and basically buzzed it. But
eh, it's not as much fun. Enjoy.