# C: MO - SAM Placement and Tactics
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iZu53v0JmyM
Video ID: iZu53v0JmyM

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be showing you optimum SAM
placement. It's just some general
strategies when you're building
scenarios with surface terror missile
batteries. Now, you probably noticed
we're chilling over here by North
Ireland and regular Ireland. And uh the
reason I've chosen this is it allows me
to provide a lot of really good little
examples of kind of what to do, what not
to do. So, the first things first uh
deals with the placement of the SAM site
itself. Now, when I place SAM sites, uh
one of the things you have to keep in
mind is they're usually designed to
protect something. They're not just like
there to annoy the player. Like I know
that sounds weird, but uh the reality
is, you know, if you're trying to
protect, you know, Dublin or something
along those lines or, you know, anything
on the Irish or North Irish coast, we
need to make sure the same site is
actually defending it. So, one of the
mistakes that I always would do is I
look, oh, we're going to protect Ireland
from, you know, invaders. You know, I
come to the middle and press insert. We
come in here, we do facilities, we get
ourselves an S400 because, you know, why
not? There we go. We grab one of these.
Toss this right in the middle. And haha,
look at that. I win. I protected all of
Ireland with one SAM site. Yes, they do
have that range, by the way. And that is
the effective range of these weapons.
It's Is that disgusting? But the reality
is this is not the best placement for a
SAM site. Let's say our interest was
Belfast, for example. Kind of chilling
up here. Maybe those giant shipyard
cranes. Don't ask me the names. I think
one's Goliath. I always forget the other
one. But maybe those shipyard cranes
need to be protected from damage because
it's a ship port or something along
those lines. So, this would be the
region where we'd want to go ahead and
set up our SAM site. Now, the big thing
with SAM sites is you have to consider
things in terms of protecting the zone
as well as not being destroyed quickly
and easily. And a lot of times those two
things kind of contradict each other.
But the good news is there's one easy
method we can use for this and that's
bringing up the relief layer. So, let me
pop that sucker open real quick. As you
can see how this region is a pretty it's
got a bit of a valley going on here.
You've got some mountains on either
side. We've got a very very lovely kind
of bay in here and everything along
those lines. And we need to design
things in such a way that we can kind of
cover this without really leaving
ourselves exposed. This brings up the
first problem people have usually, and
that's the fact that people tend to put
SAM sites in places like this. So, let's
go ahead and grab my SAM site. I'll go
ahead and toss it right there. You know,
this is definitely going to have a
pretty good view. If we were to switch
to Openo map real quick here, you can
actually see we've got really good
coverage of downtown here. So, this is
actually not bad at all kind of a thing
like that. The problem is this isn't
very practical. And if I ever go up to
my uh little map settings up at the top,
hit line of sight tool, and I just give
it a second, you realize that my
incredibly effective SAM site can only
see this entire region. Which also means
if I was a cruise missile and I was
launched in this direction, I could come
over the top of this mountain and drop
right on top of this. And now the
distance here is I think that's about
1.5 miles. I don't know about you, but I
can do the math on that pretty quick.
That's about 15 seconds travel time for
your average cruise missile. There's no
way this SAM is ever ever ever going to
get a missile back off. So, it's
basically worthless because I can
destroy it that quickly. Obviously,
against an asymmetrical threat, again,
why are we using an S400 against an
asymmetrical threat? Um, yeah, it's
going to be a little different. But
against a modern threat with cruise
missiles, this basically pointless.
You're going to get your SAM site blown
up before you can use it. Not worth it.
So, you're sitting here going, "Okay,
fine. What if we move it downtown?"
Okay, well, we'll move it downtown.
Let's see if that improves things a
little bit. Let's see here. Losses and
setting are That' be kind of
interesting. Okay. Uh, downtown's
actually quite a bit better. Of course,
um, this is probably in the way of the
museum downtown, but that'll be okay.
That's better. That's better. And you
can see here the closest mountain here
is about 2 and a half miles. It's about
20 seconds. A very, very quick SAM crew
might be able to get a missile off and
defend itself in that distance. So, this
is better. So, you're saying, "Okay,
that's fine. Um, obviously you want us
to go on a mountain nearby." Yes,
obviously that's what we were going to
do. So, what I'm going to do instead is
I'm going to use my mouse here with the
relief layer to try to identify
something that's up nice and high. Let's
see here. I saw I saw a th00and feet a
second ago. There we go. Now, he's up
there. Uh, let's see here. Anything
taller here? 531. Okay, not bad. Not
bad. Let's see what this does for us.
Let's go back to that little line of
sight tool.
And we can see that that is gorgeous. I
can see everything that's coming through
the water. Nothing that's coming from
the mountains behind us. Now, keep in
mind our target altitude might be the
same as our observer. If I flip that
switch right there and hit refresh, my
computer's going to lag massively. And
you can see we actually have gorgeous
coverage, but we actually completely
blindsided our SAM sites behind us. We
actually can't see anything behind us.
That is uh one of the fun things about
all this. And if I move my mouse about
here, again, you can zoom in to help
yourself out a little bit here. Uh let's
see here. It's about 1,000 ft. That's
about 9008. Let's see if there's
something a little bit higher here.
Let's try popping them over here and see
if that improves the situation a little
bit. And again, this is part of the fun.
And the nice thing is in the real world,
things are a little more obvious
sometimes with line of sight. But that
ain't bad. Of course, look at this.
We're not protecting our city anymore.
Ah, such as the life say love.
So, the cool thing here, as you're
probably noticing, is that there really
is no sweet spot. If we were to put it
right here, we have beautiful coverage
to the water. If we put it back here,
we'd have a much better coverage
basically in the whole region. And you
have to kind of decide what is the
bigger threat. Generally, when you're
defending something this important,
you're probably going to have two SAM
sites anyway. But one of the things I do
want to share, though, is if you ever
have trouble finding where to pop one of
these as far as altitude goes. One of
the other tricks that works really well
is if you open up the open top map real
quick, you can actually see the hills.
So, like for example, if I'm not going
to pronounce this one correctly, uh the
Ulie Hail here over and you can actually
see it's pretty high up and it actually
will mark it with a little mark there.
There's Galloway Hill over here, kind of
a thing like that. We have Colon, we
have Black Hill over here. We can see we
actually got this right. Uh this is
Divas. Uh there's actually a thing up
here already. I would be surprised if
there is a radar site. So we actually
have kind of a little bit of realism
completely unintentionally there. But
the cool thing there is you can see
immediately sort of how to place these
things. And a lot of times in open topo
map they'll actually give you the
heights. Like I can see Black Hills is
360. I can see Divis is about 478. And
you can just kind of get a little
literally the lay of the land is the
best way uh to get the hang of these
sorts of things. Actually I'm curious
about this one. How high is it? Says
312. So, not doing so hot. Not doing so
hot. But again, that's a great way to
kind of help you out. But let's say, you
know what, sorry, you're going to have
to defend down here anyway. It's just
too risky. You say, "Okay, let me put it
downtown." So, now we create a new
problem. And I like to call this problem
range baiting. So, right now, if I were
to go flip on the relief later again,
let's pop this on. This is very helpful
today. You will notice that I have a
range around me of mountains that are
about five or six miles or so. Now,
you're sitting here going, "Okay, so so
what? So what? Obviously, you won't
engage anything that gets that close to
you." Uh, the answer is absolutely won't
us. However, we also want to avoid a
classic classic player strategy. So, I'm
going to come down here. I'm going to
actually replace this with a Nike. No,
no, let's do an SA6. Let's make it
challenging. All right. An SA6. I'll do
the Cub. Actually, the C for that. Uh,
this kind of the new one, but that's
fine, too. There we go. Look at that.
Let's flip on to sensors.
Yeah, that looks good. Yeah, that's what
I'm talking about. Yes, this is going to
be so irritating. I can't wait. So, we
can see here we've got my SA6 downtown.
It's looking pretty good. I'm actually
going to make it autodiscoverable just
for my demonstration purposes here. Let
me show you what I mean by range baiting
real quick. Let's go switch to the other
team.
All right. So, what we're going to do is
we're going to intentionally use a
classic strategy in both the real world
as well as the uh lovely program here,
and that is tricking this guy into
firing and wasting his missiles by
destroying terrain instead of our
expensive aeroplanes. So, as you
remember, we intentionally placed this
unit inside of this valley. And uh as
you remember also, we had doesn't have a
lot of room before there are a bunch of
mountains in the way, which means I in
F16 just have to get myself low enough
so that I can hide behind this but be
still in range. And you can see our
range bracket we're about to enter in
just a few seconds here. So watch this.
So what I'm going to do is drop his
range down to about 1,000 ft. Now the
highest thing here is about 1,000 ft,
which is going to be perfect for us. And
the other thing I'm going to do is
actually order him not to use automatic
evasion. I will do it manually. Watch
this. Watch this. So my F16 continues to
descend. He's just kind of cruising
down, losing all sorts of altitude.
About 15,000 ft. My SA6 I set them to
ace, by the way, so they're not messing
around when it comes to this. And what
I'm going to do is I'm going to pull an
oblique here. We're going to go a little
to the side and we're going to keep our
altitude at about 2,000 ft. I don't know
why they got rid of the data here for
2,000 ft. I must have messed something
up somewhere. There we go. That's
gorgeous. So, right now, our SA6 batter
is Look at that F16 going. Just get a
little closer. Little closer. That's it.
Get in range. Come on in. Now, the best
thing if you really want to be a jerk,
send them down to loiter speed. Look at
this. Just kind of This is obvious.
Obvious bait is obvious, but you can see
how we're just about in range here. This
is going to be so funny.
All right. Okay. Take your shot, SA6.
Take your shot. Take your shot. One of
the things you can do if you're really,
really mean with the strategy is you can
actually pull in just a little bit. I'm
going to pull towards him. Ah, see this
is the problem is that we have to work
out the arrangement here. Actually, I
think he's too low for us to hit.
Whoops. All right, let's go up to 5,000
ft. Okay, I'm being a little reckless
here. Usually I get my calculator out
and do this correctly, but um you'll see
the strategy. You'll see what I'm doing
here. All right, we're well within range
here. I want to see what the SA6 is
waiting for. Probably getting within the
firing. Oh, he's friendly. That
definitely explains why they did not
engage. I'm sitting there going, man,
why is he not firing? He's This is the
world's most patient crew. All right,
posture. Set him to hostile. There we
go. That's what I'm talking about. All
right, here we go. Here we go. Now he's
going to fire.
Let's see here. Anything blocking his
line of sight? I just want to inspect.
Uh, actually, we'll just kind of push
him along here. One, two. Cool. Let's
switch back to the team here. All right.
Now, watch this.
This is the hard part is There it is.
There. See the missile? See the launch?
So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to
take my F-16. I'm going to order him to
go dropping down to minimum altitude
here. Let me Watch this. Watch this.
Watch this.
It's a minimum altitude. Look at this.
Look at this. It's blind. So, as you can
see, I can actually have my F-16 go up
and down, up and down, up and down, up
and down, and waste this entire
battery's ammunition until it's over.
So, again, if I pop him up back up to
12,000 ft here. Go ahead and unpause.
Let's see if I can get him to do another
cheap shot. Go ahead, take your shot.
12,000's too high. He should be a lot
lower. I should keep him down to like
8,000 or something like that. Come on,
take your shot. Take your shot. Come on,
SA6. I hate SA6's. I hate them so much.
I've been shot down by them way too many
times in Falcon. Come on, take a shot.
You're going to do it. Look at this. I'm
turning towards you. I've got bombs. I'm
going to drop bombs on you.
And the SA6 battery is sitting there
going, "What is this guy doing?
Do you want me to come up and knock?"
Huh? That is the world's most patient
SA6 battery. I am super impressed.
Anytime now, SA6 battery. Anytime.
Actually, I'm kind of curious. I'm going
to switch to the team real quick and see
why he's not taking the shot. I might
still be really really low or something.
Whoops. Control V. Shift one. Uh, let's
see here. What is it doing here? It's on
the magazines. Launch at max range. High
maneuverability target. Interesting.
This is the world's most patient crew.
But regardless, let's get back to what I
was trying to explain here.
What are you waiting for? There you go.
All right. So, now the F-16 just has to
go minimum altitude.
And we wasted two more SA6es into the
woods there. Okay, you get the idea.
Okay, so how do we prevent that? Well,
the trick here is all you have to really
really do, see I went blind. All you
have to do is order him not to fire at
targets that are going to be in excess
of his um ability to basically duck like
I just showed you a few seconds ago.
Now, the cool thing is we notice the
nearest mountains about 2.4 miles away.
This is about three. This is about
three. Obviously, we have this long
valley. So, what we'll do is we'll
intentionally limit our range to a
stupid 5 miles. Now watch this. Crl+ F9.
We'll go to our We'll go to this one and
we'll drain it. Drop it all the way down
to 5 miles, which seems silly, but it
actually isn't a bad thing. There we go.
5 miles. 5 miles.
5 miles. Obviously, against things like
cruise missiles, this is going to be a
little different, but we can change that
in here, too. This is just for
demonstration purposes. 5 miles. Go down
here. 5 miles. 5 miles. And I'm also
going to make sure this entire side is
allowed to engage willy-nilly.
Optimistic. Uh let's see here. Uh engage
opportunities. Yes, engage
opportunities. Don't sit there leaving
me hanging. Not on YouTube. All right,
let's head back. So, let's grab my F-16
here. Uh we'll grab the same one we had
before. We'll load him up with some uh
wind corrected munitions dispensers.
Fantastic. Okay, so let's aim this way.
Drop him down to minimum altitude.
Now, as before, we're sneaking up on
him. We're sneaking up on him and we're
going to try to get him to take a shot
at us. So, if I pop up a little bit
here, again, there's a mountain about 1
th000 ft right here. So, we're just
going to get him to take the shot. Go
ahead and take the shot. I'm going to
see if I can pull him up just a little
bit. And you see that he is not falling
for it. Uh, that Sam's sight isn't going
to do anything to engage us right now.
We're completely within his range. And
there's the shot. Now, the interesting
thing is all I have to do now is turn
around and go basically to ground here.
No, you're auto evading. Don't auto
evade. No. As you can see, he auto
evaded, which was the wrong thing to do.
It would have been safer to just die
below. But what you'll notice there is
he engaged him when he was 5 miles away.
Basically preventing this from
happening. Again, defending Belfast like
this is absurd. Put it up on the hill
like that. The next thing, and this is
important, is making sure you align the
system that you're using for the SAM
site towards the incoming threat. Now,
certain types of SAM systems, the S400,
for example, don't have this issue, but
systems like this Patriot definitely
does and the THAAD. So, what I'm going
to do is I'm going to come down here.
I'm going to go flip his radar on real
quick. And you'll observe that the radar
has a limited range in which it can see.
This is also a limited range in which it
can actually engage. So, if we knew the
threat was coming from the east here, we
have to actually align this battery
towards the threat. Now, the annoying
thing is you can't actually change this.
Uh, so keep in mind wherever you point
this as a scenario editor is going to be
where it's actually going to be going.
All right. Uh, so we have our unit
properties here. I'm just going to
arrange this real quick.
And in my blindness, I did not realize
set orientation is here now. All right.
So, what I can do now is I can just make
a quick little adjustment. And now this
radar is covering this entire region,
which is going to be the only zone in
which I can actually engage stuff.
Another tip when it comes to landing
down SAMs is making sure that you
separate the battalion radar from the
local radar. What do I mean by that? Uh,
if I were to grab, let's say, an SA2 for
example, I think this is actually going
to be the best visual for you. Grab the
D/ E model, which is the classic one.
You'll notice if you click on it and
press your sensors that you have your TV
camera, your eyeballs, you have the fan
song E, which is the basically fire
control radar, and you have a spoon rest
C, which is basically going to be your
search radar. So, when you're designing
sets like this, one of the strategies I
really like to do is to actually create
a separate unit for the purposes of the
actual radar itself. Now, there's a
couple different philosophies to this.
Uh, one thing you can do is I can press
insert. I can actually come in here and
type in spoon rest as an example. I can
just pop it in there like that. Press
okay. And now I've isolated the search
radar from the search the actual fire
control radar. Now if you want to take
this a little bit further, what you can
actually do is go to the battery itself.
Again, this is all in the mission
editor. And I can actually remove that
completely, which means that we
basically snapped the radar off and put
it somewhere else. Now, one of the cool
things here is if you want to mess with
players, and like who doesn't want to
mess with players, right? One of the
things you could do is actually create a
dummy SA2 battery. And I'm going
actually rename this SA2
two battery radar, for example. Search
radar.
Now, the reason I did that is I'm
actually going to come in here and I'm
going to clean all this stuff out. And
this is just this is so cruel. This is
so cruel. I'm going to leave the Sams
cuz I'm a jerk. And I'm going go ahead
and get rid of that one. So, what we've
done here Oh, what did I do? I got rid
of the one radar I actually needed to
keep. Sigh spoon rest. C. Let's add it
back in. There we go. So, what I've done
is I've just left the spoon rest vehicle
here and I've essentially called this an
SA2. So, if I come down here and
actually switch this to be uh not
autodetectable. Let's make this one not
auto detectable as well. Um, while I'm
at it, I might as well delete the spoon
rest here cuz technically I deleted the
radar already. So, what I have here is
two SA2s. One's the battery, one's the
radar. So, if I come in here now and
actually flip the sensor on, uh, we now
have pretty good coverage. And it's
actually kind of fun because it says we
have a range even though we don't have a
range. It's just kind of funny. But the
important thing here is if I were to
switch to the other side real quick. Let
me shut off God's eye view here. Grab my
F-16 cuz you know F-16s are good for
this kind of demonstration. F-16 CM BLK
52 is the correct F-16. There's the one.
And we'll switch to the harm missile.
Watch this. All right. So, I'm cruising
along. I'm cruising along. I'm doing my
F-16 thing. I've detected a SAM. Aha, an
SA2. I've detected the search battery
radar. Oh no. Where's the SAM itself?
Now, if you did not rename that to
search battery radar, actually, I think,
let me check my settings real quick
here. I might have it set. So, nope, I
don't. If I did not call this SA2,
battery search radar and left it as SA2.
The player might go, "Aha, this will be
easy. I'll hit you with a harm missile."
The harm missile gets launched. Look at
this. Look at this. And splattered. I
win. War's over. I destroy the SAM site.
I don't have to worry about anything.
But surprise, the actual SAM site that
has the business end of the SAMs, which
would be of course the missiles
themselves, is completely operable. But
keep in mind, we did just the
search radar. So unfortunately, our poor
Sam site down here, unless he's got a
really good pair of binoculars, is not
going to be able to see our F-16 hanging
out here. So kind of keep that in mind.
So one of the things you can do is if
you're a real jerk, and again, depends
on how much of a jerk you want to be
here, you can come in here and you can
do a generic cameras and stuff like that
just to be like really, really mean. If
I do LLTV, for example, uh we'll do it
as the name. I just went generic LLTV.
Uh you can do surveillance.
Watch this. Watch this.
Now, if I unpause, we actually have the
ability to spot the target. So, if I
mark him as hostile, now the SAM site
will still operate uh just fine. And
it's just kind of one of those things
that I find kind of funny that even
though we got the battery radar, as long
as you have a visual on the target, you
can still take your shot. And the reason
we're not taking a shot here, too, is
we're a little bit too steep here. But
that's okay. You get the idea. And then
the last tip I will say about setting up
SAMS is not to leave them undefended
themselves. What do I mean by this?
Let's say, for example, I wanted to come
down here and I wanted to do something
like put down. We'll do THAAD because
this is a great example of this. Grab
myself a classic THAAD. It just feels
weird. Go ahead and right click on that
sucker. We need to get its radar view.
Again, we'll assume the Canadians are
feel like shooting a bunch of missiles
at us today. So, we'll set the
orientation. snap this thing around so
it's aimed generally towards Canada kind
of a deal. But the reality is is it's
obviously got this dead zone behind it.
And again, this is an anti-bballistic
missile radar. It's not really a SAM,
but it'll work fine for us either way.
Well, technically it's a SAM. But one of
the things you could do to kind of
eliminate that is set this up with a
little bit of local defense when you're
actually building the scenario. Now, for
local defense, there's a lot of little
things you can do here. For example, um
Nam Sams, if we're dealing with this
one, NASAs. I always get a NAS. There it
is. NAS. And now what we can do here is
actually pop this one down. I love the
fact that it says that it's United
States Army all loan. There's the radar
itself and I think the United States Air
Force ah right there. So we can actually
pop this thing here and it's basically a
little truck with basically A120
missiles just sort of hanging out and it
gives it a little bit more protection
than just sort of sitting on its own. So
again, some sneaky F-16 can get quite
the surprise when all of a sudden it
discovers that this one's sitting here.
Other things I do too with sand
batteries is I love this trick is if you
run up to the hill real quickly here and
you go to facility, you can do observer.
You know, if you set up an observation
post or even a generic observation post,
they can actually provide you with a
kind of a visual coverage of the region,
making it so much harder to sneak up on.
The other thing you can do too to make
this even more tricky is you can also
set up some AAA. I really like AAA and
it's really fun way to surprise players.
But uh one of the things you could do,
for example, is if you expect the player
to come through this little valley here,
you can come down here and just pop some
AAA right there. So again, we don't have
a lot of AAA anymore in the United
States. They've definitely come down on
that. But if we wanted to, uh what am I
thinking? Linebacker is the one I'm
thinking here. That'll do it. Even
though we don't use them anymore, uh you
can pop that thing right there and
basically hang out waiting for anybody
silly enough to try to fly through this
particular point. Then of course, uh
since they know they'd be going for the
thad, most things would be coming in
this way. You could even come to like
this little valley right here and set up
a mechanum. This is all hypothetical,
but we'll put a Zeus. Uh we'll put a
Zeus here because why not? Actually, no,
no, we'll be good. We'll be good. We'll
be good. We'll grab that one right
there. Fantastic. So, now if I switch to
the other side real quick, I'll grab the
other blue team. I'll grab my F-16 one
more time, and you'll demonstrate just
how irritating this has just gotten. So,
sort of swinging down here with my F-16.
I can see there's a wide variety of
targets there. And again, nothing beats
infantry men with a stinger missile.
Those things work great, but I can see
there's all sorts of mobile targets, and
I'm really, really unsure which one I'm
going to go. Of course, intelligence has
told me that the one I really want to
target is that one right there. Well,
they're all going to be hostile, but
that's the one I want right there on the
left. So, what I'll do is I'll get ready
on F-16 mode. I'll get my little plan
going here. I'm going to go this way,
and I'm going to kind of hang around
here, and then I'm going go diving
straight forward at maximum speed. Go
drop myself down to minimum altitude
here, and this will be easy. Going to do
some solid F-16ing action here. Just
cruising along, doing my thing. Of
course, I'm burning fuel like crazy.
Hey, you're an F-16. You only have an
hour of gas left ever.
Buddy and I have a running joke about
the F-16 that um it's not really an F-16
unless the fuel warning is flashing.
It's like, you know, it must be parked
and the engine off. Oh, look at how easy
this is. Oh, they thought they could
trick me. Look at this. I'm sneaking up.
I got this mountain to cover me. I'm
just a couple feet off the ground. I'm
going to get all my stuff all queued up
and ready to rock here. Lock onto this
here. I'll go hit this with the Maverick
IR. And I don't know what this thing is.
possible to hit that with the Maverick
IR2. Come rip around the corner. Oh no,
surprise. You didn't know that that was
a hostile target, did you? And you can
see my poor F-16 is had a much more
interesting afternoon now.
Now, of course, he's like, "Oh, well,
this is going to go on for a minute, but
I kind of enjoy it." So, as you can see,
uh there's a wide variety of strategies
that you can use to make Sams more
effective. Of course, the big thing
there is obviously placement. Making
them a little bit harder to defend works
really, really, really well. Mixing them
up with different types really makes
things like this really, really, eily
irritating. And again, if I had a bunch
of tomahawks and I came back, I could
probably be a little irritating, but
it's it's not going to make a difference
in the long run here. Now, if I pop this
guy up to maximum altitude, I don't
think that's going to get me more range
here. Uh, I don't think so. We're going
to try. We're going to try. Weapons
away.
Actually, I think I got out of range of
my own Mavericks.
All right. Did I get out of range of the
Mavericks? Yeah, I did. All right. Let
me back myself up. I actually got to get
lower because I'm too high for my own
weapons. There we go. Right into the
danger zone.
There we go. Finally. Of course, what
happened? The Nam Sams ran out of ammo.
So, unfortunately, I still win.
Oh, no, I didn't.
Isn't that awesome? Other than that,
enjoy.