# C: MO - Bunker Busting Bombs
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jcBmWBHbj8U
Video ID: jcBmWBHbj8U

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be showing you a little bit
about bunker busting bombs. Now, that's
just a fun way to say that. You know,
one of the things I want to do is first
of all mention the fact that trying to
hit something that you can't see from
the air is a kind of an interesting
experience. So, always kind of preface
anything that you're going to be hearing
with that reality. So, something doesn't
quite make sense, it might have
something to do with that. So, first of
all, let's take a look at bunkers in
general in command modern operations.
And I have a group of different ones
just for the purposes of demonstration.
I know you really want to see that thing
hit this. And I set it all up nice and
neat so it could show off the
differences. I got you covered. Don't
worry. So, let's go ahead and pause. So,
the first thing is not a bunker as far
as bunkers go. Underground bunker, I
should be more specific here. You have a
straightup surface bunker. And what
you'll notice here, if you take a look
here, is it'll have a category under the
bunker. It'll say it is hardened. And of
course, it'll be building bunker. That's
just kind of fun to say. One thing
you'll notice here is that it's got
1,600 damage points. pretty average
size, pretty big. Again, nothing too too
special. Now, remember, this is a
surface bunker. I know we're doing
bunker busting today, but this is
something on the ground. We don't have
to get to it. We can just hit it
conventionally, and you'll see what I
mean in a moment. This guy in the
middle, of course, is an actual
underground target. And what makes it
different in command modern operations,
if I come swinging down here, you'll
observe the fact it is a land structure
hardened building underground.
You also notice it general armor is
pretty darn strong. It's got about
double the damage points here, which
that's not that big of a deal, but it's
also a much bigger target. So,
theoretically, it's easier to hit. Our
final type of bunker, and this is kind
of where it starts getting a little
weird, is an actual mountain bunker.
Now, this is something that, as you can
see from our picture here, it is
integrated. These things are not
supposed to be easy to hit. Again, if
you have an uh basically a hanger in the
side of a mountain, this is the same
concept here. It has something kind of
unique about it, and I want to show you
real quick because once you see it,
you'll never not see it. Uh, did it do
both screens? Yes, it did. Let me scroll
down to the bottom. Do you notice my
regular bunker has some signatures? It's
got a v visual signature. It's got a
radar signature. Watch what happens when
I go to our buddy over here who's this
underground mountain bunker. You'll
observe it has no signatures. This
target cannot be detected. I know that
sounds kind of like, oh, obviously it's
a bunker. But the reality is, if you're
building a scenario and you make this
thing not autodetectable, it also means
you'll never be able to see it. You
could be inside of this thing and you
still will not be able to see it inside
this game. Now, the third bunker I
grabbed here is our lovely underground
hardened bunker C3M. One of the things I
really appreciate about this one is if
you actually look here, it says
underground hardened bunker C3M.
Penetrators are required. That's only
partially true as you'll see, but notice
it's about the same hit points. It's
about the same size. There's really
nothing special and again it's invisible
unless it is auto detect on. All right,
those are the lessons. Let's see what
happens now. So, first thing what I've
done is I've asked this lovely B-52 to
uh inconvenience these targets with some
high explosives in the form of
everybody's favorite GBU10E. This is
sort of an early version of a laser
guided bomb. But what I really
appreciate about it is it makes a really
big bang except when it doesn't hit the
target,
but it'll be able to prove my point
pretty clearly anyway. Don't worry about
it. There'll be a follow-up in a second.
So, if I go ahead and switch on a god's
eye view here, you can see here that my
underground hardened bunker, um, it
actually took a pretty heavy hit there.
Again, when you have about 2,000 lbs of
explosives precisely dropped basically
on the front door, it's going to cause
some problems. Now, if I swing over to
my mountain bunker, you can see again, I
broke some china kind of a thing like
that. Swing to my underground bunker.
Surprisingly, it wasn't a very clean
hit, so it didn't do that much damage.
And of course, my surface bunker, quite
hilariously, um, had a malfunctioning
GPU. So basically it made a whistling
noise and you hear thunk and that's all
you get. So if you want to imagine kind
of a gutter ball I guess is what I would
call that one. So what we have now too
is you can take a look at my little
scenarios. We have a group of GBU 31s
here. Now the reason I picked these is
because I wanted to demonstrate that
this is a lot of explosives. These are
all Mark 84s. Big big big big big bombs
here. And what you'll observe is as they
go slamming into this underground
target. Ow. Oo. Ah. Ooh. Um, let me go
ahead and I'll let this smoke set. That
was some clean shooting, by the way.
That's hard to do. If I actually were to
click on this, let me took on God's eye
view. You will notice that that many
thousands and thousands of pounds of
explosives did indeed do a substantial
amount of damage. Actually cut it in
half. You'll notice we didn't really
penetrate into it. As a matter of fact,
if you were to open up your little
endgame here, you can read all about it
and it'll say, you know, we struck the
target kind of a thing like that. But
what you'll notice is only a few of
those actually did real damage. Again,
we're shaking China here. And you can
see 10% 10% 10%. We didn't start a fire.
Obviously, we can't flood it because
it's underwater. Obviously, it's not
underwater kind of a thing. So, as you
can see, traditional weapons just aren't
optimized for the process. Now, like I
said, I'm a little disappointed that
that fellow on the right decided not to
work correctly. You know, of course,
it's going to do that when you go to do
demonstrations. You know how these
things go. All right, so let's go speed
it up. Let's try that again. This time.
Okay. Okay. Ready? Ready? Ready?
Remember, this is the surface bunker.
Surface bunker. Half the hit points,
half the Here we go. Here we Here we go.
There we go. Okay. Thank you. Now I can
demonstrate my point here. All right.
You'll see that this one did take
substantial damage only on account of
the fact that it was kind of a near
miss. I mean obviously losing uh you
know 15% of your existence is uh quite a
near miss. But the key thing here is
you'll see that it did do a regular
amount of damage and again much less
damage. Hopefully you get that part. All
right. Now let's get to the actual
bunker busting. So we'll go swing back
and one of the things I'm going to
change real fast. Here's a quick little
tip. If you set this to computer only,
you don't have to put up with that every
time. All right, we're in business. So,
we have a B-52 here. And now, what I've
done is I've intentionally changed its
loadout, and I've cheated a little bit
here, but again, you could see I pretty
much got all the bunker busters. And for
some very, very sharp eyed folks, so
you'll probably recognize a couple of
the early bunker busters, like the Tall
Boy and the Grand Slam, are not here.
You also notice I didn't get a Bap 100.
I didn't get a PB500 or anything like
that. Those are all really, really,
really solid ones. But what I did do is
target the ones that pretty much
everybody knows. So, you can see I got a
Cab 1500 in there. Now, there's a wide
variety of different style bunker
busters. And of course, this B-52 could
not possibly hold all these in here, but
they're all basically the same general
concept. The idea is you have some kind
of guidance package on the end of
something that is very hardened that has
a very long delayed blast on it. So, if
you take a look, for example, the GBU28
here, which is the classic Gulf War
weapon of choice, even USAF91, you get
an idea here. You can see that this
thing is basically a rocket boosted bomb
with a very very very precise warhead.
The idea is basically this thing would
drop, the rocket would fire, go boom
kind of like a uh and that's actually a
pretty good demonstration. It's a lot
louder than that, but the reality is
this thing would basically dive into the
ground and then explode. One of the
things you don't realize about this
thing which I saw was very fascinating
is it is a 4700 lb bomb. This is not
like something tiny and you can see just
how much it's a 670 lb of titanol. This
is not a messing around weapon. The
other thing I found very interesting
about the GPU 28 here is the fact that
when you look at it, it's pretty
reliable and it requires an a laser spot
to do the D. So, let's go ahead and drop
this thing on our good old friend
really, really, really harden target
here. Grab the command bunker. You can
see I have such a good choice of what
I'd like to use here. We're going to use
the GB28 here. Let's go ahead and speed
up time a little bit. Remember, this is
the Gulf War era weapon. Almost 5,000
lbs of explosives here. And there it
goes. Now, one of the cool things here,
and one of the things that blows my mind
is, again, this is considered a guided
weapon. You can see right now it's
dropping just shy of the speed of sound.
And one of the things it should do,
which I don't think they're going to
emulate or simulate, I should say,
emulates one thing. Uh, simulate and
command is this thing should more or
less be dropped vertical. Like, you
really shouldn't be doing this oblique
shot like this. Like you can see right
now, it's pitched at about 26°. You
really want to come straight down with
this weapon cuz that's how it would
worked. And as you can see, remember we
had a 15% chance of it malfunctioning.
As you can see, we got the lucky lucky
wave and it just cleaned flat out
missed. The weapon malfunctioned. Isn't
that kind of funny? I'm having a fun day
with that. All right, back up. Try that
again. All right, second time.
Imagine how embarrassing that would have
been for the air crew when just looking
at each other going, it does explode,
right? So, this is actually a little bit
better of a shot because we're a little
bit steeper. And again, you want to try
to get it as vertical as you can get to
get the maximum penetration, which again
is our goal. We're trying to get
underground with this weapon as it drops
here. All right, see this one works
better. Oh, we missed.
Ah, that's a go 1991 G4 laser technology
there. And you can see we just straight
up missed 7 off the side. And obviously
it blew up and didn't do much. But one
of the things I love about that is just
to demonstrate how the early versions
you needed to drop a few of them to
actually be successful with it. So,
let's go ahead and fast forward time a
little bit here. We'll go back into our
lovely little inventory of weapons to
something that was a little bit more
modern. And again, you jump up to the
GBU37, which kind of the improved
version of this particular weapon. This
is a little bit later on if you want to
think more like a Serbia Kosivo kind of
thing like that. And you can see we've
got that large guard section. We have a
very, very strong hardened warhead. And
the actual explody bits are the ones in
the middle here that's going to be doing
the job there. Couple things have
changed, of course. saw we now have INS
navigation which theoretically will
solve some of those issues we have. You
also notice we kept the same 4700 lb
weapon size and that's actually really
really impressive cuz that's a lot of
explosive and you can see B2 Spirit. So
I'm about right with that one. All
right. Now watch the difference here. So
I'm going to go ahead and drop three of
these at once. And you're going what?
Let me show you a cool trick. Hold down
shift F1 then press shift drag box. Let
go. So I'm going to grab my Oop here.
Wrong one. We'll get we'll get to you.
We'll grab the GBU37. I'm going to grab
all four of these with a shift click.
Click my GBU37. Set this to the number
one. And then press allocate weapons.
Now, if I unpause like this, you will
notice my lovely B-52 has no problem
giving everybody a bomb. And you get a
bomb, and you get a bomb. So, again,
same kind of thing as last time, and you
can see it's basically the same weapon,
but just a much, much better guidance
package. Theoretically, this thing
should work. And I again, I'm uh should
is in italics, by the way. I don't know
if you could hear that from my voice.
So, here they come again. Little bit
flat. You wouldn't drop a bomb like that
flat. And you can see it hits one of our
bunkers. It's my surface bunker. It's
that bunker. And of course, here comes
the good one. Here comes the good one.
Watch us. Bang. All right. Control V.
Now, this is where things get
interesting. All four of those look like
they were pretty clean hits. I think the
only one that did not hit was this one.
Yeah, about 45 ft off, which against a
bunker. That's that's a it's it's not
good. That's not good. Again, you're
going to break a bunch of light bulbs
and stuff like that with a hit like
that. So, one of the things we can see
here is our surface bunker, which again
has no protection from the ground above
it. Basically caught fire and is having
a bad day. Our little uh first one, the
underground bunker one. Yeah, like I
said, you probably shattered all the
lights and stuff like that, but it's
actually okay. This one, by the way, we
missed. Coming over here, this is the
mountain bunker. Theoretically, you've
got a lot of mountain on top of you.
Same thing again, about the same. Wasn't
a clean hit. And when we swing over to
this one, you'll see that we did
actually pretty hefty amount of damage.
This was a very, very clean hit against
this. But notice the difference. Same
amount of explosives, much much higher
effect that we've had on our targets
here. Next up on the mic, of course, is
going to be the CAB 1500 LPR model. Now,
this is kind of a neat weapon. This is
basically an Eastern weapon, a Russian
weapon. The big difference with this one
compared to some of the other ones, I'm
going to grab it real quickly here. You
can keep running just in case something
happens, is the weapon's just not as
large. Uh, you'll see here it says 750
kg. Um, if you want a quick translation,
that's just shy of 2,000 pounds. So,
it's about a Mark 84. It's not nearly as
big as the other one, which is literally
twice the size. But you'll notice that
it does an enormous amount of damage
because it has such a bigger warhead
compared to the rest of the body of the
weapon. So, this is a classic example of
let's get more bang for our buck,
literally by just having a larger one.
One thing I really like about this
weapon is it targets runways and puts
very big holes in them, which is pretty
cool. But anyway, let's uh jump back
down here so you can see what the
western version of this is. And again,
this is a very very big explosion
because more of the weapon is dedicated
to the explody parts than the weapon is
dedicated to the guidance parts. And
again, now you'll see the difference
pretty much right away hopefully. So,
okay, here it comes. And we got a little
CAB 1500. Again, this is a laser guided.
The PR means I forget what it is. Don't
ask. Again, I think of it as penetrator,
but I'm sure it has another name for it.
And let's see here. It looks like pretty
clean again. Oo, right down the center.
Let's see how we did here. Now, as you
can see, this mangled the interior of
this bunker here. And the reason it
mangled it so well was several reasons.
First of all, it was a clean hit.
Several of these we haven't gotten
clean. Second of all, and this is huge,
the explosive was so much larger and
more powerful than we had in the
previous one, which just was targeting
trying to get down deeper. Now again
depending on the real world how deep the
bunkers are and again those kind of
elements are going to have a big impact
on just how that would have matched up
side by side. Now if we could of course
we could dial in how deep the bunker is
and then we would have seen that that
previous weapon even though it was a
smaller weapon probably would have been
less effective than like I said the
GBU28 and 37 only on account of the fact
that those weapons were designed for
more penetration. The other one was
designed for more explosive potential.
Now, the interesting thing is there's a
couple weapons that exist that are
basically kind of hybrids between the
different types. And of course, those
would be your BLU 109's and your BLU
122s. And basically, they're almost the
uh almost call them the American version
of the CAB 1500 there because they're
optimized for explody bits rather than
diving. So, if I were to open up my
little bit real quickly here, we'll pop
into my weapons real fast. I believe I
did one of those. Those are 113s.
There's a 109. Got it. But one of the
great things about this particular
warhead is you'll notice that I can
mount it on something other than a bomb
that I got to walk up and drop right on
somebody's head, giving us a whole
different kind of tactical flexibility.
So the AGM130, of course, is a really,
really slick glide weapon. So if I were
to go ahead and grab this one real
quickly, you'll notice I'm already
within range. I can just boop like that.
Go ahead and hit spacebar there. And you
can see that weapon goes just like that.
And now the cool thing is you can
actually see that this thing is
basically a rocket powered bomb here.
So, it gets a nice little boost. You can
see it's actually busted the speed of
sound already and it's basically gliding
in a nice sweet arc all the way down
onto the target area below. Speed up
time a little bit here. We'll see if we
can catch the fun part to happen. 30
seconds to go. I love this feature. I'm
so glad they added that. There we go.
Again, still kind of flat. So, this is
this would be basically a glancing shot.
Bam. Woohoo. As we can see, as is
today's trend, uh you'll notice here
that we just missed the weapon
malfunction. We are having a good day
for that. Talk about probability not
being on our side. That's okay. But the
key thing there is that you notice that
we have the same capability as these
other bombs, but we just have a
massively improved range. Now, when it
comes to weapons, of course, and people
think of the classic, what is the bunker
buster to end all bunker busters? Like,
I need to hit something a mile
underground. You just can't do that.
That technology doesn't exist unless it
has a physics package. As I'm going to
put that in finger quotes real quickly.
However, if you absolutely have to do
damage, you have this one, the GBU 57
Alpha in Bravo. Now, you can see a
picture of this thing and you're like,
"Oh, that's looks like the other ones.
It's got a big heavy nose. It's got the
big guidance section on it." But there's
something you might be missing with
this. And uh this is what I think is
kind of fun. You will observe that it is
a GPU 57. It has 2400 kg of high
explosive HTP. It's big stuff. And this
does more damage than any of these
bunkers can survive. Uh, the other thing
that's incredible about this weapon is
it's nice and fast. You get about 18
seconds worth of cruise on it. But of
course, it has all the latest and
greatest and greatest weapon. Inertial
navigation, GPS guidance, everything
under the sun. This is a fun weapon to
play with. So, let's go ahead and shift
F1 there. We'll go ahead and drop. You
get one. Let's see here. GPU 57. We'll
go ahead and grab that. Again, I'm
amazed you can carry two. These things
are gigantic weapons. We'll go ahead and
track that one. And we'll go ahead and
drop. That was a 28, but that's okay.
It's going to do the same deed. So,
we're interested in the one on the left
here, not the one on the right. All
right. Getting a little bit closer.
Getting a little closer. Getting a
little close, my friend. Oh, there it
goes. There's one. That was the 28,
though. That one just got There it goes.
That's the one we want to watch. So,
again, this is the world's largest. You
can see here, like I said, it's a huge
weapon. I think it's uh just off the top
of my head, I think it's like a 30,000
lb bomb. Like, it's it's just huge. But
anyway, bam. Okay, let's see what
happened this time. V. You notice it
didn't malfunction, right? So, if I open
the sucker up one more time, we can see
we got a pretty clean hit. And again, we
did a pretty good amount of damage to
it. I don't think it was a clean hit.
No, it was not a clean hit. So, we
actually missed it by 31 ft. But in
missing it by 31 ft, not only did we
shatter all their China and knock all
their Legos over, but we also set fire
to the bunker. So, it gives you an idea
of just how lethal that weapon is. I'm
not satisfied with that end result,
though. So, let's go ahead and shift F1
one more time here. We'll go grab
another one of those. Ah, that's the one
I want. 57A. I like how it's literally a
mop because it's a massive ordinance
penetrator. I mean, like that's on the
nose. Okay, this time it's will succeed.
And again, you're probably noticing you
have to drop several of these to
actually hit the bunker because you
can't see the bunker. You might get like
a little vent on the ground or something
like that. Now, that's correct. It's a
six. Oh,
there we go. And you can see if you do
hit the target, it obliterates it cuz
that's exactly what that particular
weapon is designed for.
Now, at this point, you should have a
pretty good idea of what's going on
here. The key tactical considerations.
Obviously, you have to detect the target
first, but you can't unless the scenario
designer let you. Uh, the other thing
you probably observed I'll go move him
back here. We'll have a nice little Oh,
I just want to call it uh, you know,
fireworks show at the end here just for
fun. The other thing you probably
observed is the weapons themselves are
not terribly accurate. You know, no
matter how hard we try with those kind
of things, the reality is you're
probably not going to hit it with one
bomb. Uh, you probably also noticed that
with the later generation, they traded
penetrating power for having a little
bit more explosive, which was a nice
trade-off cuz the nice thing with those
weapons is you can also use them against
runways. And again, we have no runways
here. Runways are very hardened. You can
see we're trying. We're trying. He's got
to go back and do it again because
unfortunately uh he's all basically LGB
and everything like that. So, if you
open this sucker up, you can see my
surface bunker on fire. You can see this
one. Actually, the ammo bunker wins the
game here. This one has been untouched.
And of course, our lovely command
bunker.
And again, the last thing you probably
noticed from this video, which again,
this happens in the real world all the
time, was the fact that many of my
weapons did not hit. Many of my weapons
malfunctioned, which is just kind of the
nature of the beast when you're dealing
with things like that. So, when it's
like, "Hey, what am I going to use?"
Just remember, you're going to need a
lot more than you expect when you're
hitting a target you can't see. Enjoy.