# C: MO - Getting there as fast as possible without running out of gas
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JVwUVxemDFk
Video ID: JVwUVxemDFk

Hello everyone, in today's video we're
going to be answering a quick question
that somebody had as far as uh figuring
out how do you get somewhere as fast as
you can without running out of gas. I
thought this was actually kind of cool,
so it'd be great opportunity to show you
how there's some nice interface features
built into Command Modern Operations to
make this a little bit easier. First of
all, as we all know uh most things don't
have unlimited fuel unless you're of
course sail powered or you're nuclear
powered. So in the case of our lovely
FFG 36 Underwood here, uh we know that
we have a pretty substantial amount of
fuel. So let's see here, 586 tons
basically, which is quite a bit. But the
question is um I need to get myself all
the way over here to Ireland and I need
to do it without running out of fuel. So
how do I figure this out? And there's a
couple different ways built in to do
this directly. Uh the first thing we can
do is we actually click on my Oliver
Hazard Perry and I go ahead to find a
course like you can see that I've done
here. If I were to click on the final
waypoint and press the F2 key, you'll
notice it'll bring up a little screen.
Hang on a second. A screen you can read
that will actually show you here the
total fuel quantity required. Uh you can
see here very clearly it's 375034.
If you do the math on that one real
quick, uh you'll realize that we're
pretty safe. As a matter of fact, let's
go get my calculator out and actually do
the math for you really quick here.
minus 375034
enter. Boo boo. That leaves us with 211
tons of fuel remaining, which is uh
plenty of fuel to basically safely get
us to our destination. You say, "Well, I
want to get there in a hurry. Um what am
I supposed to do about this? I mean it's
it's awfully long distance kind of
thing." Well, this is where things get a
little tricky. Uh if I were to sit here
for example and press F2 and say, "Go
full speed, full speed." And of course
I'll give the Oliver Hazard Perry a few
moments to actually spin up his full
speed here. Uh that looks pretty good
here. When I come back over to this dot
real quick and press F2, uh you'll see
here my new fuel consumption is 475040.
Now if you remember a moment ago we
calculated we have 586,000.
So we actually have enough fuel to get
there even though we're doing 30 knots
now. So uh we're moving pretty quick and
you can actually see the fuel quantity
required is slowly coming down here. So,
we actually have enough fuel to make
that trip still. So, let's go over to
this guy real quickly. And I'll just
crank him up to flank speed. Whoa, we're
booking. And I'll give him a few moments
there. And by the way, a ship uses it's
a V to the 3 as far as um speed or
energy required to go flank speed on a
ship. So, now if we go run over here and
press this dot real quick, we can see
that it's um 852.
&gt;&gt; [laughter]
&gt;&gt; That's a little too much. So, we can't
make this trip cuz it's a way over our
586. So, what you can do, of course, is
you can come in here and start fiddling
a little bit. You can say, "Well, what
if I do 31 knots?" And you know, you
crank it out just a little bit down to
31 knots here. And can go back over to
this, click F2. You say, "No, it's not
the optimum trial." And we're at 608
again. Did you notice that two knots
made the difference of 100 tons of fuel?
That's exactly how ships are. So, you're
like, "Whoops, I guess I'll bump it back
to 30." And as you notice, this is our
full throttle one more time. So, if I
hit F2, go to the last position here,
you can see clearly that we're 474. Yes,
believe it or not, one knot of
difference adds 100 tons of fuel at
those kinds of distances. Isn't that
kind of cool? So, you're sitting there
going, "Well, that was neat. Um that
took a long time though. And uh heaven
forbid I'd want to like do it like the
really long way, which is I'd have to
click here. And I'd have to scroll down
here. And I'd have to like sit there
going, 'Uses 174 kg per minute.' And I'd
have to calculate Ah, that's Ah, too
much work."
So, if you're dealing with aircraft,
it's a little bit easier.
And the reason for that is is you'll
notice there's this blue circle being
projected around the world right here. I
really wish we had ships that did this.
This would be much more convenient for
us. But one of the things is is if
that's not visible for you, uh this is
This is aircraft range. I hope someday
that Uncle Demetrius adds this to ships
as well, and submarines for that matter.
Cuz it makes things really easy. So, if
you take a look here, uh we want to get
this Airbus over Europe. And uh you can
see very clearly right now that it's
going to get to Europe no problem. Uh of
course, we want to go to Ireland, which
is beautiful country for those of you
who have not been. But we want to get
there in our hurry. So, I'm going to
kind of real quickly here. And as you
can see, if I were to press F2, he's uh
cruising. If I cruise right here, he's
going to try to get his optimum ratio
between speed and his ability to
basically get there in a hurry. I mean,
that makes some sense. Not burn too much
fuel. There we go.
So, the question is, what if I want to
get there sooner? So, you kind of do the
same thing. You come over here on this
panel. I you see this button that says
military. I didn't realize an Airbus had
a military setting, but we're going to
push it and see what happens. What
you'll notice is that range ring has
shrunk immediately. So, if I click
cruise, it gets big. If I press loiter,
watch what happens. You can actually see
instantly and dynamically the change of
the range of the aircraft as I clicked
it. So, now that I cranked him up to his
uh new speed, let's give him a moment.
What you will observe is that when I
clicked it, it did not immediately show
the actual correct range. And the reason
it didn't show the correct range is
because we hadn't actually spun up
enough of that actual speed yet. You'll
notice now that I'm cruising that that
ring shrank substantially. As a matter
of fact, you're not going to have a good
reading on that ring until you get to
your cruise speed. But, one of the
things you'll observe here is this gets
us exactly enough range to get to
Ireland. And you're watching right now
as this thing is slowly starting to
shrink. So, you're sitting here going,
"Okay. I I feel it. Okay. I I get what
you I I'm I know where you're going with
this." But, the key thing here is you'll
notice as his drag increases, as he gets
closer and closer to his peak speed of
470 kn, you will notice this range ring
will shrink with it. It's not because I
jammed on the gas that the range ring
shrunk. It's because the way that it
calculates is it basically bases it on
your speed at that moment. So, if I
speed up time a little bit more, what
you're going to observe here is as I
crawl to 470 kn, I suddenly am not going
to have enough range. However,
here's the cool part. I know that I'm
doing 464 kn right now. That means if I
go 464 kn, I can still get to Ireland.
So, I'm going to press F2 4. I'm going
to press 464, press enter, close that
screen, and as you observe, even though
he's going, figure quote, full speed,
you can't see the quotes, I'm still
going to get to Ireland. As a matter of
fact, if I speed up time here, you'll
observe that we are going to have
exactly the same range all the way there
because that range was based on that
speed that we were going at that
specific time. Now, anybody who flies
airplanes knows they would really rather
not have to land in Ireland with this
little range remaining. So, what you can
do for safety, and this is just
operational, is you can come down here
and go 462 and press enter, and you'll
notice here instantly that gets us
another almost, wow, what was that? That
was quite a bit. How much was that? That
was 105 nautical miles of additional
range like that. Hopefully, you got the
good snap of my fingers there. I thought
that came out pretty well.
So, this is just a quick little way to
do this. Like I said, it's a point maybe
ships will have this capability, too. Uh
for those of you who want to see the
hard way to do this, I'm going to go
ahead and show you the hard way as well.
And the reason I want to is cuz I know
most people want the kind of the quick
and easy, lazy way, but we'll show you
the hard way as well. So, let's get that
set up.
All right, hard way time. So, we have
this poor FA-18, and uh he's going to
have to do a transatlantic crossing. And
uh we want to get him all the way down
into uh Central Germany. Let's Let's
make it interesting for us. This is a
pretty long flight, I'm not going to
lie. And if you actually scroll down
here, you can get an idea immediately
what all of our range estimations are.
For example, I notice that at this exact
moment, he's got 7 hours and 10 minutes
remaining. I can see what his mission
fuel is and all those kinds of things.
But, let's say for some reason now we
wanted to do this the hard way. Let me
go ahead and pause. So, the first thing
we need to know is we're going to have
to know how far we need to travel. So,
for example, if I'm going to Central
Germany like that, again, I can come
over here and press F2 and actually get
those distances. Uh this is going to be
3,100 nautical miles. So, I'm going to
go 3,100. I'm going to grab my handy
little notepad. Let me hold on a second.
There we go. So, we know it's 3,100
nautical miles to go. So, the thing we
have to note about this particular thing
is we want to add some kind of buffer to
it. So, 3,100 * 0.05 is going to be 155
+ 3,100,
which is going to be 3,255. That's 3,255
with 5% reserve, which gives us enough
if we need to like do like a holding
pattern or something. It's not a lot. Uh
that's what you have to know. So, right
now if we were cruising at cruise speed,
if I bring up the little tactical map,
again, you can come down here and read
this real quick. We're at 30.96, which
again, kind of handy. We're going to go
all the way down to the bottom real
quickly here.
Whoa. Oh my goodness. Keep in mind this
is modified by external stores. So,
whatever the number actually says down
here can be very different than the
actual number. So, make sure you're
using the right number when you do this.
I think I would have to work the thrust
out, but that's a lot of work. All
right, we are above 36,000 ft here, and
according to this we burn 30.96 kg per
minute. And keep in mind that is
including all that nasty stuff. So,
30.96 per minute, 30. 96 per minute, kg
a min. And our current fuel on board, as
you can see, is 1286. Oh my god, that's
a lot of fuel.
&gt;&gt; Thoroughly impressed with that. That's a
lot of fuel.
Wow, that's a lot.
So, now what we need to do is we need to
figure out based on our current speed
what that's going to do for us. So, we
know we're 460 kn. So, if I do 4 300
3,255, actually 3,100, which is our
original range, divide I don't know,
let's be technical. 3255 divided by our
current speed is 460, and that's going
to get us how many Let's time we're
going to be spending in the air,
basically. All right, 3255 / 460 enter.
That's 7.0. Obviously, we need that in
minutes because we can't change the unit
to minutes or hours, I should say, which
is kind of a bummer. I sort of wish we
had got like tons per hour or something.
All right, so we're going to multiply
that by 60. So, that's 424.
Uh let's see, kilograms. And I've lost
my train of thought here.
So, that's going to give us our time in
minutes. So, that's a 424 minutes of
flying to get there.
A fly.
That's good stuff. So, uh, we know now
that if it's 424 minutes of flying, if
we were to multiply that by our 30.96,
that tells us that we get 13144.
So, that's uh, means that do do do,
is going to be our total there, which is
uh, quite a bit if you do the math on
that real fast.
Now, you're probably going, "Well, wait
a minute. Uh, that doesn't make sense.
Uh, we don't have enough fuel on board."
You know, if you come down here, we're
12863. We need to be able to travel this
distance and still get there. But, one
of the things that we're missing in the
calculation here is the fact that as you
get lighter, you will burn less fuel.
So, that's going to have an impact on
that. And, uh, one of the things you'll
probably notice here, if you look real
quickly, is the fact that it gives us
12863 total fuel, which is 7 hours and 8
minutes, which is incredibly close to
our original calculation there. So, 3255
/ 460, you can see 0.07 * 60, uh, that's
uh, 7 hours and 4.2 minutes. So, uh, you
can see we're actually pretty much on
the same page as far as fuel consumption
goes. Again, at any point I can hit this
jettison button and kind of kick all
those other guys off to give you an idea
of that. But, that also makes you
realize how tight our actual calculation
is. Now, if we wanted to improve this
calculation a little little tiny bit,
one of the things we could actually do
to our lovely F-18 here is we could back
it up a couple knots here. For example,
if I want to do 470 knots, then go ahead
and unpause that. Let me speed up time a
little bit here.
There we go. You can see what that does
for us is that brings that fuel
consumption down basically a minuscule
amount. Uh, we're now down to 30.48
kilograms, which is uh, means we're
going to lose 10 knots per hour, but our
fuel economy is going to increase
basically 2 or 3%, which is you can tell
by the giant blue line here, is not
much. So, just kind of be sort of
cognizant of that kind of a thing like
that. Now, one of the things some people
say is, "Why can't we just put this
thing on creeping or loiter speed and
get there, um, you know, burn less
fuel?" Well, watch what happens. If I
switch this to loiter, you're going to
notice there that I get an initial huge
boost of range, but as my aircraft slows
down,
you're going to notice that we're not
going to even come close to getting
there, and we're going to be burning
substantial amounts of fuel because
basically we're going to be sitting on
our nose or we're sitting on our tail
right now trying to make that up. And
trying to pick something in between,
you're going to see it's going to have
the exact same impact. Aircraft are
designed for their cruise speeds. If you
don't keep them at their cruise speeds,
you're going to lose that optimum. And
again, us goofing around, I feel sorry
for this guy who's got to cross the
entire Atlantic for our demonstration
purposes here. Again, cruise speeds are
awesome, and as we saw earlier, we could
adjust that just a little bit. But be
really, really careful with your
numbers. As you probably saw from our
little worked example there, this thing
does a really, really good job, but you
have to be really careful on those
margins. Enjoy.