# C: MO - Task Pools, Packages and Escort Missions
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K1CjUSr2o5Y
Video ID: K1CjUSr2o5Y

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at a couple
different things. The first thing is
going to be dealing with task pools and
packages, something we dealt with a
little while ago, but again, for the
purposes of this example, I'm answering
a question somebody was having. And the
other thing we're going to be dealing
with is escorts and kind of how to best
use them. So, in this case today, we
have ourselves the Enterprise. It's
loaded up with a bunch of different
airplanes, all pretty much chilling up
there on the flight deck, getting loaded
up with some bombs and stuff like that.
And uh we're going to be flying into
here to basically do some damage to some
SAM sites. And it should be pretty
accurate because we're not going to be
using harms. We're going to have to do
this the hard way, which makes it kind
of fun for us. So, let's go ahead and
take a look what we have here. Open this
one up. The F6 key. Yeah, there's a
bunch of Marine F18C's. We can't use any
of those. We got a couple EA2s. Ah, they
got the ALQ99 X-ray. That's awesome. And
of course, we have a couple JDAM
equipped F-18s. Now, this is downright
luxurious if you ask me. A lot of times
you have like Mark 82s or like CBU 103s
or something like that. So, I will
definitely take this load out. So, let's
go ahead and figure out what we're going
to do here. Uh, first things first is
our only target for this mission is
going to be the SAM sites. So, we have
no interest whatsoever in the early
warning radar. Although, that could be
helpful to destroy. And of course, we
have no interest in this air base, which
is absolutely loaded to the gills with
really, really, really tasty targets. In
the real world, of course, what they
would do when they plan is they'd say,
"Oh, we've got some bombs left. Bomb
this on your way out." Kind of a thing
like that. But, we're not going to do
that today. We're going to keep it
simple. So, what I'm going to do is I'm
going start by grabbing the two SAM
sites. Actually, the first thing I'm
going to do is I'm going to go ahead and
shut this thing off. It's going to make
me crazy. Grab these two Sam sites with
the shift key. Crl+ F11. It's going to
bring up a screen that looks like this.
Uh, what should we call this today? Um,
come get some or something like that.
And now, what I'm going to do this time
is I'm going to intentionally set this
mission to be a package as opposed to a
regular mission. Now, if you come here,
you'll notice it reset everything I just
did. And it also gave me a package
number. package one is uh well I guess
this is DE AD today because technically
we're striking targets like that you
must select one parent task pool. Now
you'll notice here that this thing
panics. The reason it's panicking here
is we have no aircraft ready to be
tasked. So let's go ahead and take a
look at what that looks like. So I'm
going to press the F11 key real quick.
I'm going to come up to the tippy top
here. Press add. And this time I'm going
to add the task pool. We'll call this
Navy aircraft or something along those
lines. Looks good to me. Looks good.
Again these are some other tools we
could use. we just can't use them
unfortunately in the civvy version. So
that's nice and ready to go. And now
what I'm going to do is grab my Navy
aircraft. Don't panic when you see this.
I'm going to add the Navy aircraft into
it. Now, one of the wild things you'll
notice here is with my task pool is if
we go up to mission settings, you have a
button that basically could delete all
the flight plans out of them. Like
that's the only magical thing you can do
with it. People say, should you be using
task pools and packages and stuff? It
totally depends on you. A lot of
military organizations obviously that's
how they do business. you know, your
order 6122 today and off you go kind of
a thing. It'll just make random up
missions. But again, it's completely
organizational. All right, let's go back
and do that again. So, I'm going to grab
this one, hold down shift, grab the
other one, control F11. Uh, we're going
to say blow this up. Blow up. Actually,
no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Let's go ahead and do our package again.
Package 4061. Deed. That is deed, not
dead, by the way. We're going to do a
strike. We're going to do a land strike.
That looks lovely. And notice parent
pool is Navy aircraft. I'm going to
press okay. Now, check this out. You
will observe at the top the only people
available for tasking. Does that sound
familiar? Does that sound a little bit?
No. Oh well. Are going to be the
aircraft that I put into this original
group here. And our task pool is here.
Here is our package. And again, it's
completely organizational. And as you
get your projects to get bigger and
bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger,
it gets more chaotic. And sometimes it's
really, really nice, especially if
you're doing something like Operation
Allied Force or something like that. All
right, so let's go get our project
together here. So our flight size here,
we have four F18s. We're going to split
that in half. And now the reason we're
going to split it in half is there are
two targets. That makes it easy. Our
escorts, of course, I'm going to go to
my escort page here. I'm going to make
sure that their flight sizes of one. And
now, the reason I'm doing this is
because I'm going to have two different
groups attacking. I need two separate
escorts. Obviously, if I had eight or
something, I could send four escorts per
group. But the reality is it it's going
to be tough to get close enough to
actually deploy those weapons without
taking advantage of some terrain
masking. But I'll let it do its thing.
All right. So, we've got escorts of one,
and of course, we have strikers of two.
Let's add everybody in. Grab them both.
Punk. Now, this is an important step a
lot of people forget. We have to
actually mark these two aircraft as
escorts because we're basically going to
use them to jam along the way here. Now,
if I click on this guy, you'll notice I
have the button that says mark selected
as escorts. Now, there's a couple
philosophies for this. The simplest way
is simply hold down the control key,
grab both of those mark as escorts. Or
if you're like me, you click on the
whole group, then click mark as escorts,
and you get everybody underneath it,
which makes it way, way, way easier. A
lot of times what happens in scenarios
is you have like 50 F-16s. Maybe it's
just me. Uh, one of the things you have
50 F-16s and you want a quarter of them
to be escorts, you can just hold down
the control and bang, bang, bang, hit
mark selected, move on your day. All
right, let's do some quick math here.
There are four. There are two. Let's
mentally check. four divided by two even
number. Two divided by two. Two divided
by one two even number. Good. We're all
set. All right. So, let's go ahead and
take care of a couple other things. So,
we're not doing formation single aim
here. Obviously, we're going to be doing
independent aim. Uh we're going to keep
it nice and simple. Uh split distance.
Uh the split distance is fine. I'm not
going to change it or anything like
that. Offaxis attack is very very like I
like that idea, but I'm actually going
to avoid that here even though it looks
like a simple choice. Supering settings.
We're all set there. Escorts look good.
Looks good. It looks good. Looks good.
Looks good. Ah, maximum threat response
radius. Uh, you want to be very careful
with this. So, because these are seed
aircraft, you don't want them flying
halfway across the world in order to
look at something that seemed
interesting on the ground. So, I'm
actually going to reduce the range on
that just a little bit. I really wish
these are options we could adjust. Like,
come on. Let me push them. Let me push
them. All right. So, that's good to go.
Electronic warfare aircraft. Flight
sizes of one. All set and ready to go.
Minimum number good. I'm not going to
worry about any of these things real
quickly down here. It's going to be
fine. Targets delightful. Uh, looks good
to me. MC Con. Now, this is important.
Our escorts are jammers, which means if
we go to escorts, we have to actually
tell them they're allowed to jam. That's
an important point here. If we don't do
that, uh they won't be turning on their
jammers and being obnoxious. Now, keep
in mind, we're going to get shot at no
matter what in this scenario. You're
just going to get too close and they're
going to take a couple pot shots at you.
All right, that looks pretty darn good
to me. That looks good. That looks good.
I think pretty much ready to go. Uh
let's see. If we were smarter people, we
would do a time on target. Now, the
reason we do a time on target is to
basically force them to get there at the
same time just in case for some reason
the flight planes don't quite work. So,
let's go do that, too. You might as well
be pros about this. It is at 9:30 right
now. 12:30 is way too late. Uh, we'll do
10:30. I think that's going to be fine.
Go ahead and, uh, click there real quick
just to make sure that it's set
properly. Nice. Uh, one of the things
you can do now if you just
Whe, careful. Now, you got to go fix it.
See? See? See how easy that is to do?
Bo. All right. That looks much better.
So, when we're ready to go now, we can
come down here and hit create or update
flight plans to sort of just double
check to make sure everything is okay.
You can see it generated everybody's
flight plan pretty effectively there.
Now, if we bring up the air tasking
order, I don't think there's going to be
anything in Oh, look at that. Turns out
there is. All right, let's just do one
quick mental check here. Uh, let's see
here. So, they're going to come over.
Well, this is actually really, really,
really, really, really, really
dangerous. All right, so this group is
going to be launching. I'm just trying
to study what they're doing here. Um,
let's see here. Your weapon launch
against that target needs to correspond
with your weapon launch against that
target. Okay. All right, folks. If
you're going to do that, we have to do
it correctly. All right, that looks a
little bit better. Let's see here. Let's
take a look at the other one. That's our
group. That's our group there. And you
can see we got that nice little split
action going on. Pretty good. Pretty
good. Not bad at all. All right, that is
all taken care of. Now, if I wanted to
be even more careful with this mission,
what I really should have done is I
should have split it into two separate
missions to absolutely guarantee my
timing, but um I don't know, being lazy.
Let's test it. So, now I'm going to go
and unpause. We're going to give it a
moment to kind of process. Actually, one
of the things I should have done under
the air tasking order is take a look at
what takeoff time is. That would have
been smart on my point. Uh let's see
here. Time on target. Local time on
target. Oh, here we go. Local takeoff
time is 55 five55. All right, that works
great for me because then what I can do
is I can come down here. I can actually
here, watch this trick. I'm going to set
my speed to uh hot tomatoes here. I'm
going to go ahead and press the skip 15
minute button. Check that out. See, now
it's 9:45. I'll press the skip 5 minute
button. I'll skip it again. And that's
helps if you click it properly when you
do the actual button push here. There we
go. And you can see right at 955,
everybody is taking off. This is a
really long flight, too. I feel sorry
for these poor pilots. Whoa. As I go
ripping past what I'm supposed to be
demonstrating here. Ah, sigh. All right,
as you'll notice here, we have two of
these lovely EA6s here. I love the fact
that this put a back seat in A6. There's
just something there's something very
aircraft engineering about that. I don't
know, puts a smile on my face. But we
can see they've turned on their jammers
and they're being nice and obnoxious.
Now, the cool thing here is if you
actually switch to the other side real
fast, you will see these folks are
completely clueless about what's coming
to get them because the jammer is so
effective against these old like 1950s
and60s radars. It's just a bunch of
lines right now, which is
awesome. All right, let's see here. Time
on target we said was 9:30. So, let's go
ahead and pause. We'll go up to two
tomatoes here or one tomato. And we'll
go ahead and skip 5 minutes here. Skip a
little bit of time. Skip a little bit of
time. All right, now we're ready at the
action sequence. Let me slow down a
little bit here. Okay, so now we're
going to run into a couple problems
immediately. What's going to happen here
is as our aircraft come out, you will
observe that my jammers here are
actually no longer in the effective area
of the targets. What they're attempting
to do at this time is jam for both of
them. Uh that's just the way it works.
If you remember what I was saying a
couple moments ago, I was saying if we
split them into two missions, we'd
preclude this. Now, here's the scary
part. If I switch to the other side real
fast, you'll observe that we're having a
difficult time actually getting a good
lock on these targets even though they
um basically are jamming from the center
here. I can actually mark these all as
hostile. And what these folks will try
to do is bust out their targeting radars
and start working it out. You know,
again, you can shoot at a jamming
target. It's actually just it makes you
less likely to hit it. So anyway, this
is where things are going to go downhill
really fast. And this goes back to my
original point of my jammers here
because they're jamming from the center.
Again, this is old technology. Here
comes the missiles. All right, here they
come. And there goes the first. Again,
the SA3 is a better system in my
opinion. It's Oh. Oh, got shot down. And
here comes the other one. They're going
a little wide here. Again, my jammers
are doing I love that nice 3D effect.
Yeah, there's no way in the universe
that one's not going to get tapped. And
we can see my guys have dropped. And
there goes the second group of bombs
against my SAM 2 there. My 75. Oh yeah,
this is going to end pretty quick. Whoa,
whoa, careful F-18s. Careful, careful,
careful, careful. Oh, that would have
been so embarrassing. Notice, by the
way, that my extremely expensive jammers
are flying right over the top of the
party. And one of the things you'll find
interesting here, again, because I
didn't split them into two missions,
they're perfectly visible. We can
actually take a shot at them at any
time, which would be awful because like
I said, they're very, very expensive.
The interesting thing here, as you'll
probably observe though, is the mission
was accomplished incredibly. I think
this thing surv Well, it's in bad shape,
but obviously it's probably not going to
shoot back at us. Anybody got anything
left? Oh, you do. Uh, let's see here.
What are you doing right now? No, you do
not need to. I'm actually going to
unassign you real quick. I'm going to
press F1. I'm click right there. Oh, his
buddy was already on the
way. Oh, get over there.
I just hate the idea of them not
finishing the job kind of a thing. All
right, F1 click. Uh, they're going to go
ahead and drop off a couple. And you
know how much how many of these things
we got left? Uh, we got one to go. I'll
go ahead and drop one on the P70 as well
because you know why we're here, right?
All right, you folks can go home. You
did a nice job. Keep in mind since I did
unassign them. Notice how the two
jammers are now paying way more
attention to this group here. And I
believe you all missed, but that's okay.
All right, let's let everybody head back
to the carrier and
landoop. All right, that's the sound of
carrier landings. Let's go over to
losses and expenditures here. Let's see
here. Looks good. Looks like we got
everything we came for. They fired six
of these, 10 of these, and somebody
managed to get off one of the shoulder
launch guys. That's embarrassing. No
losses. Obviously, like I said, uh we
had a very, very, very stacked mission
here. If these were obviously an S400,
this would have been very, very, very
different. But at the very least, you
got to see your test pools. You got to
see how the jammers don't work
effectively if you allow them to split
up a group. And of course, you got to
see a successful mission. Enjoy.