# C: MO - Understanding Aircraft Operations
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k2Fc8dVycIQ
Video ID: k2Fc8dVycIQ

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to show you how to understand the
aircraft operations page as well as pick
the appropriate loadouts for missions.
To get started, simply click on the unit
or air base that contains air units.
Then select the aircraft operations
button on the toolbar. You will now see
a list of all the aircraft currently
stationed at that unit. If desired, you
can click the blue hyperlinks to open up
the database entry for them. To set the
load out of a unit, click the unit and
then press the ready arm button. You
will now see a list of every possible
loadout for that particular unit,
including the weapons carried, the
number of weapons carried by the air
base or ship, and the various ranges and
profiles for the mission.
It's important to note at this point
that the default shotgun and Winchester
settings are here as well, as this may
impact how your missions work. The
enable click button allows to enable
quick turnaround missions that foregoes
the long turnaround times between
landings for a limited number of
sorties. Below this, you have a detailed
breakdown of the weapons carried by this
particular loadout. And as before, you
can click on them to get the database
page with further details. When
satisfied, click okay. Ready to start
preparing the unit. The two buttons in
red are available only when using the
scenario editor. The unit is now being
prepared and the estimated time is
listed as 3 hours. Now we'll show you
the difference between sustained and
surge air operations tempo. We'll begin
by changing the tempo to sustained in
the doctrine and roe page. Keep in mind
you can only change this in the mission
editor. Now we'll set up a new aircraft
with the same loadout. Notice how the
ready time jumps from 3 hours to 20
hours. This reflects air operations that
include time for things like
maintenance, crew rest, and other
critical factors. If you wish to ready
several aircraft at once, you can click
the first aircraft, hold down shift, and
then click the last aircraft before
pressing ready arm. You can also select
individual aircraft by holding down the
control key. It's also worth noting that
you can only arm aircraft with weapons
that exist in the magazines of the unit
you are launching from. In some
scenarios, magazines can be set to
unlimited as shown in our example here.
As before, changing this option can only
be done in the scenario editor.
There are two unique loadouts that you
may encounter in scenarios. One is
reserve which represents readyto use
aircraft without loadouts and the other
is maintenance which represents an
unusable but still present for targeting
aircraft.
But other than that, enjoy.