# C: MO - Tactical Effects of Altitudes
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KOOxlw5dfrU
Video ID: KOOxlw5dfrU

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at altitude
and its tactical implications. Now, the
interesting thing here is we've created
a pretty basic scenario. I particularly
like Nevada for this because there's a
good variety of different terrain and
makes things tactically interesting. And
I'm going to start off also by saying
the fact that this strike that we're
about to do is suboptimal. And I want to
do that intentionally so we can control
one variable at a time. So, what we're
going to do first is we're going to
create kind of like a baseline here. I'm
going to call this one pointless strike.
I'm going to go ahead and do a land
strike real quickly here. It's a regular
one. Let me go ahead and make a quick
adjustment for you folks at home.
Hopefully that's a little better for
you. So, what I'm going to do is I have
a bunch of F-16s and I feel bad because
a lot of these are going to get shot
down today. But I'm basically going to
grab the whole posi here. Go ahead and
toss them onto the mission. Again,
straightforward stuff. Nothing weird.
I'm grabb myself some escorts. I'll mark
them as escorts. Come down here. I've
got lots of seed escorts, which trust
me, you're going to need it this time.
And um that's my strikers. Now, my
strikers themselves are made up of a
couple different F-16s here. Apparently,
I clicked the wrong thing. There we go.
Uh, we have F-16s that have Mark 84s,
which are basically dumb bombs. You have
to essentially go up and then drop them.
And of course, we have LGBs, which are a
little bit more useful, a little more
accurate, except for the fact that they
require us to have line of sight. Now,
the weather today, I'm going to go click
on the strata tanker. Well, we can't see
it. Basically consists of some light
high clouds at about 20 to 23,000 ft.
All right. So, as you can see by the
title on this, this is about altitude.
So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to
begin by launching my strike at a
conventional altitude.
&gt;&gt; Let's go ahead and take a look at what
this looks like. So, if I switch on my
flight view mode, you can see we have
our different flights here broken up at
different altitudes. Most of them around
36,000 ft. Now, 36,000 ft is a good
altitude for several reasons. Uh, first
of all, it's going to give you fabulous
line of sight for any sensors.
Basically, if it's out there and it's
electrically detectable, we're going to
detect it as long as we can see it. Uh,
that also means you are very, very easy
to detect by anything on the ground,
including all this nastiness that's down
here. The other advantage to high
altitude is your fuel burn. If I were to
grab, for example, one of these little
F-16s real quick, and scroll down to the
bottom,
the database is your friend, by the way,
D. Here we go. You will notice that
between 36,000 and 45,000 ft at uh
cruise speed, we're burning 21 kg of
fuel per minute. You'll notice at the
moderate altitudes it's about 30 29 kgs
per minute. And at kind of these middle
altitudes that we're going to be playing
with quite a bit, you can see my
consumption is up almost 30%. If my
consumption goes up 30%, my range
decreases by the exact same amount as
well. So, one of the advantages to these
higher altitudes is the fact that you
are going to be burning substantially
less fuel and your electronic sensors
are going to have a much much easier
time of seeing things. So, here we go.
We're getting ourselves into position
here. I'm going to go ahead and flag a
couple of these guys as hostile. We know
the whole region is quite hostile here.
You can see I have a couple, of course,
the M28s. So, the party starts. Uh, you
can see right away that my air
interceptors basically ran out and
started going after them. Uh meanwhile,
my seed aircraft are starting to do what
seed aircraft do best and basically
waste uh $50 million worth of uh harms
is the best way to describe it,
especially against a very very high
precision system like the S300 down
here, which is having no problem
blinking away at all the incoming say.
Oh, I got them all. [laughter]
All right, S300's cheap. All right,
looks like we got something here, but
that's okay. Meanwhile, my strikers have
basically turned around and ran, which I
don't blame them. That that was a good
call on their part kind of a thing. Now,
my seed aircraft are pretty much out of
everything, which doesn't surprise me.
And again, remember, we're operating at
36,000 ft here, which is, in my opinion,
kind of the high altitudes. So, we did
see the missiles coming. That's a
positive. We are aware of the enemy
aircraft. That's another one of those
great positives for us. And, uh, the
enemy had no problem basically dropping
their entire rack. Now, there's another
hidden advantage to this altitude that
you probably don't see from where we
are, and that's the fact that our
basically unguided bombers, which are
going to run, actually, they're at high
altitude right now. These guys are going
to run out of fuel before they get home.
One of the neat advantages is if you do
have a precision guided weapon,
especially a GPS variety, you can
basically drop it, turn around, and
leave, which is awesome. All right, here
they come. So, these guys are actually
the wrong altitude. I prefer you folks
get up to a higher. Actually, you can't
because you won't be able to see. We'll
pop you guys up to middle. Uh, what is
this here? This is flight status one.
Oh, you guys can come up to max altitude
there for the purposes of demonstration.
All right, they've turned around and
ran. They ran out of everything. Oh,
he's going to crash.
Oh no. And you can see that poor guy had
a fun time of it. All right, so what are
the takeaways? First of all, we had the
most time possible to basically engage
with our weapons and we had a great
electronic line of sight. That was cool.
But as you could probably tell very very
clearly when we were doing our approach
there that um so did the enemy. Uh they
had no problem detecting us. Their
engagement window was very long. They
were shooting at us about 30 miles away
from where they actually located and we
didn't have a lot of turnaround.
Likewise, um one of the things we could
not demonstrate well here would have
been the fact that our lovely F-16s
would not have been able to accurately
drop these bombs. However, being at the
high altitudes, we were basically
untouchable by the short-range SAMs as
well as the AAA. Let's reset things.
Now, for this operation, we're going to
do things slightly differently. We're
going to intentionally select what I
consider to be the middle altitudes. So,
your middle altitudes are usually
between 10,000 and about 18,000 ft. Now,
middle altitude creates an interesting
little thing, uh, kind of a detail. Let
me go grab my MS paint real fast. There
we go. That's awesome. Now, one of the
problems with mechanically steered
radars, especially like on my F-16 here,
is the fact that they operate in a
conicle section when they're looking
through the sky itself. Now this is a
very very very concentrated like a
quarter degree kind of a thing. But the
reality is if the target is not within
the cone that the particular radar is
operating in it can't actually detect it
which means that this target here and
this target here would be completely
undetected even though it does exist in
the world. Now one of the things they do
in the real world to kind of get around
this is usually one of 16 points that
way one of 16 points that way with their
radars. That way we can get away from
this. But the reality is if I have a lot
of altitude, it basically makes it so
that I create a blind spot underneath my
aircraft's radar detection. I'll expand
my detection here where other aircraft
can get through. And because of ground
clutter, it makes it very, very, very
challenging to actually identify targets
underneath us, especially with older
style radars. That means if I operate at
a lower altitude, I create a less chance
of being undetected by lowaltitude
targets. And it also means targets above
me, such as this guy right here, is
easier to detect because there's no
terrain behind it. The practical upshot
of that, of course, means that if you're
basically cap aircraft are operating at
middle altitudes, it's very difficult to
get underneath them. So, what we've done
here is we've reset everything. Got an
all ready to go. What the heck is up
with that? We reset it. Everything's all
ready to go. And this time, we're going
to intentionally order our strike
mission to be using the middle altitudes
of 12,000 ft instead of that really,
really high altitude to see if it
improves things a little bit as far as
being able to actually strike the
target. That would be nice, wouldn't it?
All right, so how we going to do that?
So, I've already created my strike
mission. You can see that's all ready to
go. I'm going to click on pause for a
second. Pause. Create update flight
plans. So, what that did is it generated
a bunch of flight plans for us. And you
can see they're all broken down here.
So, I've got this one right here, flight
astro 40. That looks pretty good to I'm
going to open up the flight plan editor.
It's going to open up this sucker. We've
covered this one many, many times
before. And what we're going to try to
do is intentionally adjust some
altitudes here. Uh we got some holding
start. Why would we be holding at that
altitude? That doesn't make sense. You
should be holding at 36,000 ft to save
as much fuel as possible. All right, so
we have our hold end. Uh we have our
turning point, which is ingress or IP.
And then we have our target. You can see
all these altitudes are they're moderate
altitudes. So not too high, not too low
kind of a thing like that. What we
really need is one more waypoint after
this hold so we can drop down low before
actually engaging it. So while I'm here,
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
quickly tweak things a little bit. Uh
let's see here. I don't want that
altitude. I'm going to edit speed and
altitude. That's not what I want. I want
to do Actually, I can just click the
button. Why make work for myself? All
right. IP is also going to be 12,000 ft.
Again, we're keeping this kind of
moderate middle altitude thing going on
here. All right, good. So that's going
to get them to 12,000 ft. Target
altitude. Again, we should have
overwritten this at the last mission,
but this is it's going to be a good
enough demonstration for us. Then what
we're going to do is we're going to
insert one waypoint afterwards. So, I'm
just going to go boop. Insert waypoint.
Uh, would you like to insert waypoint
for all the flights of this mission?
Yes. [laughter] Good. And what we're
going to do here is use this as kind of
our just, you know, turning point kind
of a thing like that. So, we have
ingress. Uh, let's see here. Start. And
we're going to set that to 12,000 ft
here. So, let's go ahead and pull all
this out of the way so you can all see
what this actually looks like. Okay. So
way point four now, as you probably saw
a few moments ago, is going to be the
get down, get down altitude. And uh
that's going to work well for us because
that's going to give us plenty of time
at the higher altitude to basically take
advantage of the fuel savings before the
savings and pass it on to you before we
actually do the engagement here. You
know, while we're fiddling with our
waypoints a little bit here, let's let's
let's go let's go all out. Let's go all
out. Let's get this guy kind of in this
little shadow of this valley here. Make
it a little bit more challenging. I'm
flip the IP to the other side. There we
go. This is going to give them a lot
less time in the danger zone, uh, which
should be a little bit safer for
operation here. Let's go pull that down.
So, you can see our hold down is 36,000
ft. Our turning point here is going to
be uh 12,000 ft. And then we're
basically going to drop down to a lower
altitude. Now, the other flight in this
group, of course, is my LGB. And, uh,
those are going to be, let's see here,
they're going to be flight named Goose
51. So, I'll grab Goose 51.
Boop. All right. Goose 51. And you can
see Goose 51 has a very similar flight
plan. As a matter of fact, I think it
kept all Yeah, it did. Nice. Cool. I
like that. So, Goose 51 is sharing the
same flight plan with Astro 40. That's
wonderful. That makes my life a lot
simpler, actually. Thank you. I
appreciate that. All right, let's go
ahead and close that screen here and
we'll go and unpause and we'll let the
party start. So, what's a little
different this time is we're
intentionally coming in at a much lower
altitude. Again, this is a moderate
altitude. This is not a high altitude.
This is not a low altitude. This is a
moderate altitude. full control.
&gt;&gt; Now, you notice our escorts are staying
high while our strikers are staying low.
All right, the party is starting.
Yeah, that was that's some wishful
thinking on whoever took that shot.
All right. Whoa. Careful, careful,
careful. Don't run out of fuel before
you can actually deploy your weapons.
It's always embarrassing. Now, you'll
notice here we're operating at that
middle altitude. And again, you dock
underneath that nice little valley here.
We just lost like six F16s. This is such
a waste of F-16s. the way I'm doing this
tactically today. That's okay, though,
because for the purposes of
demonstration, our digital F-16s can get
smashed around a little bit. All right.
Now, notice again, keeping that lower
altitude for the purposes of uh reducing
the enemy's engagement time while still
keeping a pretty good line of sight to
what's actually going on with the party
here. All right, so we're tearing
across. We're still at a little higher
than 12,000 obviously because of the
mountain heights in this region. All
right, here he goes. They're breaking
apart. And you'll notice here that our
SAM finally saw them, but we actually
had a chance to deploy our weapons here.
And you'll notice very quickly the fact
that every single one of those weapons
was shot [laughter] down before it
struck the target. Oh boy. Uh, that's
incredibly typical, unfortunately. All
right, everybody's going to turn around
and go home. And that was 100% more
successful than the last strike that we
just took. You can go home. It's okay,
Marlin. Go home. So, what was the actual
practical damage that we caused there?
Again, that lower altitude made it so
they had a lot less time to engage us.
You can see we lost three F-16s and uh
we blew up nothing. [laughter]
That's rough. That's rough. All right.
So, as you can see from high altitude,
it gave us more situational awareness,
better fuel economy, but it gave them
too much time to respond. At that medium
altitude, our fuel consumption wasn't
quite as good. Our line of sight with
our sensors was okay, and uh gave them a
lot less opportunity to take a shot at
us. So, what happens if we try this at
low altitude?
This is where things are going to get a
little harder for us. Um, I like the
fact that we took advantage of this
little valley here. And um, I am
completely 100% to take advantage of
that a second time for the purposes of
this. So, this is our IP right here.
This is our endpoint if you want to kind
of think about it there. And we're going
to try to absolutely minmax this as hard
as I can. So, I'm going to try to give
it right there. Got to give him enough
time to finish the turn, too. And he's
going to come in do his little bombing
here. So, I'm going to pull this down so
you all can see it real quickly. So,
obviously my IP, this is for group 66.
Remember how last time we did 12,000 ft?
We're going to put them basically at
minimum altitude to deploy their weapons
today. So, I'm actually going to go down
to my turning point here and I'm
actually customize their altitude. Add a
speed and altitude. And what I'm going
to do is I'm going to do terrain
following 2,000 ft. We'll do 1,00. Let's
go for it. So, we're going to do 1,000
ft, which is not much. So, we're going
to come down here. We'll do terrain
following 1,000 ft. And we'll do target
terrain following 1,000 ft. That's low.
That's very low. So, our fuel
consumption is not going to be so good
down here. So, one of the things I'm
going to do as I did before is I'll
insert a waypoint just like that. And
I'm going to leave him up at 36,000 ft
cuz if I don't, he's going to run out of
gas before he comes even close to the
target here. All right, so that's called
waypoint uh four. Way point four is our
get ready to dive point. All right, dive
dash cord is a fantastic movie. All
right, so that's going to be our four.
One of the things you always want to do
is um in the real world again when we
get multiplayer or something, you want
to spook the other guy into thinking
you're not striking what you're
striking. So if they're going this way
and you suddenly dive, they're going to
be like, "Oh, they're coming over here."
But the reality is obviously we're
sneaking in here. But again, it's the AI
and they're not going to know what I'm
doing. But the reality is I need this
little bit of altitude here to be a
little bit safer. So they're going to be
at 36,000 ft and they're going to drop
down to minimum altitude and uh do their
deed here. I actually don't love that
endpoint. I actually would prefer to put
the inpoint on this side. Again, I'm
trying to line it up so they have as
little time open as possible. So, we're
getting a little bit of a lesson on I
guess I would call strikes here. All
right, that looks pretty good to me. So,
they're going to run in there, do their
thing, and get the heck out as fast as
they can. Now, this is going to be
interesting. And again, we're minimum
altitude here, so it should be kind of
fun to see exactly what happens. All
right, that is all set. That is all set.
That is all set. On pause.
All right, let's do it. All right,
folks. These guys are all bad guys. And
yes, my escorts are remaining at high
altitude this entire time. There's no
reason to put them up that high other
than I'm not going to fiddle with way
points for them because that'd be a lot
of micromanagement. I don't like that.
All right, let's start the party. So,
our first group, again, we're all at
36,000 ft here. So, we're optimizing our
fuel consumption. Um, again, you can see
we've already gone through almost 75% of
our fuel capacity already. Our
handydandy little F-16s for the purposes
of air interceptor are doing a
delightful job. And you can see already
the S300's doing his job. That poor S300
crew. Do you have any idea how many
millions of dollars of missiles that
they're going to be firing? Now, watch
this part. Our lovely little ravager
group here is as soon as they cross that
point 4, um, they're going to go ahead
and bleed off a lot of altitude.
Actually, you know, they're good. Where
are you guys going? Oh, they're engaged
offensive. Yeah, that checks. We are
getting shot at at the moment, so I
could see why they're engaged offensive.
You know, folks, if you dive, you don't
have to worry about being engaged
offensive.
You gonna come on back at some point
today?
[laughter]
Come on back, guys. Come on. Come on. I
make a whistling noise, but it probably
blow everybody's ears. All right, come
on back. You need to get to way point 4
so you can lose some altitude. Notice,
by the way, because we came at this
higher altitude this time inside of the
threat range. They were um basically
wasting all the fuel for the mission and
the mission's actually a failure before
we actually got a chance to take the
shot. So, one of the things I wish I
could do, and I'll probably get smart
about this later, is basically tweak the
MC Con and so they ignore incoming
missiles.
All right, here we go. This is the fun
part. Let's see here. Uh 1,000 ft. And
that was our point there. That was
36,000 ft. Oh boy. This is the fun part.
Watch this. Watch this. So, again, we're
just reducing the time they have to
engage us.
So, now we have a lot of advantages and
we have a lot of disadvantages, folks.
If you keep going defensive like that,
you're going to run out of fuel before
you get there. You literally,
this is a really well-defended target.
They're literally going to run out of
fuel before we get a chance to actually
gauge the target. [laughter]
Oh boy. Well, that's a mission fail.
All right. So, I went through and I
manually adjusted all the flight plans.
again. Welcome to Command Modern
Operations, everybody.
&gt;&gt; So, one of the big differences this time
is the fact that our aircraft um I've
disabled defensive maneuvering for our
strikers. Now, you probably sit there
and go, "That's kind of silly because if
they have to maneuver defensively in the
first place, that usually means that
your strikers messed up." But the
reality is is um our escorts are now
going to be attracting all the incoming
missiles, giving our strikers, as you
can see here, that are now moving at as
low as they can go, have all afternoon
to get into position without having to
deal with all those pesky SAMs. And
since we're flying so low, again, that's
the theme today. Um we can just kind of
cruise right on through and kind of do
our thing here. Bam. Bam. Look at this.
Look at this. So, keep in mind the
mountain here is uh let's see, 6,500 ft
and we're at 5100 ft. So, we're
completely masked by this terrain here.
Now, the big problem we're going to
face, and you're going to see this
extremely distinctively as we come
tearing across that airport, is the fact
that every AAA and surf shoulder launch
surface air missile is going to reach up
and say hello to our F-16s here. So, now
we're just popping over the valley.
Let's see if I can get you a 3D view to
make it a little bit easier for you. And
I've done this flight a few times
myself. Here we go.
Red one.
or something. I don't like that. All
right. So, as we can see now that we're
at minimum altitude, the actual time
they had to respond to us was very
minimal. The other thing you're probably
observing is our F-16s are getting
roasted uh by the superior air-to-air
capabilities of this, but they were
still able to get into a position where
they could deploy their weapons in such
a way that they're basically cannot
miss. Now, the interesting thing is
because we did do such a low altitude,
they're actually struggling to get to a
point where they can use their weapons,
which is kind of interesting, actually,
if you think about it.
Oh, I think I lost every single F-16. Oh
my gosh. Oh, this is bad. This is bad.
All right, I think I can make my points
now. All right, everybody go home. You
Everybody tried. Everybody tried. All
right, go home. Go home. Now, what is
the takeaways? The first thing you'll
notice here is the fact that we did no
damage again. Uh, we probably got a few.
Actually, we got a few, so it wasn't all
bad. We lost four F-16s, and that's
that's quite a loss in my book because
any loss of F-16s is bad. But one of the
things you probably also noticed was the
fact that it lost the same amount of
F-16s almost despite the altitude
choices. But one of the things you
probably also noticed is the fact that
when we were at the high altitudes, we
basically had way more time to react,
but we didn't really have a chance to
strike. When we were at the moderate
altitudes, it was kind of like a
trade-off. You know, we didn't have
quite the same line of sight, but we
also limited their time to actually
engage. When we were at low altitudes,
we basically went through an extremely
extremely lethal air defense corridor.
And even though they didn't really have
a lot of time to take shots at us,
everybody in their short-range weapon
had no problem. And uh the interesting
thing here is all these F-16s more or
less survived. So, if you don't mind
taking a little bit of damage, it makes
a really big difference. Now, I feel
kind of bad the fact that this target is
basically been untouched. So, let's get
a little bit of revenge on it. Nothing
says, "Well, that's not fair." Like a
B-52.
You would never fight these things at
that distance. But, you know what? I
felt like getting a little bit of
revenge here. Now, the interesting thing
you probably observed is the fact that
um we're using JASMs here. So they are
literally stealth cruise missiles. And
you probably also notice that the cruise
missiles basically dropping down through
medium altitude as it's sneaking up on
its target region here. Now this is uh
kind of fun because uh these things will
basically land right on top of the
enemies and then they're going to start
getting shot at by the AAA because you
can see these triple A's are having a
hell of a time with it.
Oh yeah, that's
about the budget of California worth of
JSims if I've ever seen it.
Hey, a little better. That makes me feel
a little bit better. So, as you can see
here, that was devastatingly effective.
And it also demonstrated kind of that
concept that with enough stealth and
with enough low altitude, it doesn't
matter. Even with the best AAA, it's not
going to stop anything from happening.
Enjoy.