# C: MO - 'Over the shoulder' shots with missiles and torpedoes
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KvTfNasjV_A
Video ID: KvTfNasjV_A

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at my top
three favorite over- the-sh shoulder
shots, also known as the reverse. So,
the first one, of course, is everybody's
favorite reverse shot, which is the
tomahawk. You'll notice the shortest
path required to get to a target region,
of course, would be a nice straight
line, which is uh, you know, about 30
nautical miles away. But you'll observe
here that I am firing completely in the
opposite direction. Let me go ahead and
speed up time here. I can actually go
pretty quick. And now you're probably
wondering why I had to shoot over my
shoulder, basically behind me and all
the way around like that. And the
reason, of course, is because the SAM
sites protecting them were directional
SAM sites. My number two favorite
reverse angle/over shoulder shot of
course comes from lovely submarines. And
submarines, as you know, use wireg
guided weapons, which allows them to do
really funny things. So, we're being
chased down right now by this angry
goblin. And we want to do something
about it. So, I'm going to press Crl+
F1. Go ahead and click directly behind
me. And you'll notice here that we have
these lovely torpedoes here. And you'll
notice it's outside of the engagement
arc, but that's okay. I'll click a
little bit closer here. Let's see here
within Oh, it's within five nautical
miles. That's my apologies. There we go.
Fire. So, what you'll notice here is my
torpedo goes straight backwards. So,
even though I am now on the run from
this enemy torpedo that's coming for me,
you can see that I have returned the
favor by sending a torpedo straight back
uh towards the opponent who originally
launched that torpedo at me. Now, one of
the reasons I love this shot is because
in the old days, you had rearfacing
torpedo tubes. Nowadays, it doesn't
really matter so much. We just basically
point straight backwards and fire, or I
should say, point forward, fire, and off
we go. Kind of a thing like that. Oh.
Oh. Oh. Oh. We got something. We got
something. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Here we
go. I don't think we're going to
anything.
cheap shot. And of course, what happens
when you find yourself flying in
formation with an enemy airplane? You of
course shoot straight sideways as
opposed to bothering with uh you know
any of that pesky dog fighting stuff.
So, of course, weapons like this, these
are those high offset basically a new
generation of dog fighting missiles. And
as you can see, um they don't quite go
over the shoulder, but they certainly
come right out the side. And
unfortunately, we did not get get a kill
shot there, but that's okay. There's
actually a wide variety of these and
theoretically some of these can fire
backwards and I've seen rather amusing
situations where basically one will do a
180 turn. But as you can see the weapon
is perfectly capable of uh coming out
the side of the airplane even though it
is a forward fired weapon runs out of
energy when you do that. So you got to
be kind of advised. So as you can see
these are three kind of amusing little
cases of using weapons kind of not how
people normally think of them. Usually
guided missiles you kind of point in the
direction and fire. These things of
course because they give us so much
flexibility with the direction after
launch we could do some kind of cheeky
things. Enjoy.