# C: MO - Ship Screening Distance
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LCw_eLNeRpI
Video ID: LCw_eLNeRpI

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be answering a question
somebody had that I thought was actually
pretty good. And the question was, is
there any documentation out there that
tells you exactly how far away you
should put your screens? Uh the answer
is there are a couple documents out
there that will help with this
particular process. Of course, you're
sitting here going, "Well, that's fun. I
don't want to do any reading. Um I know
you're going to show us anyway, so could
you just show us?" Sounds like my
students, right? So, what we're going to
do today is kind of demonstrate the
general way to set up a ship screen.
We're also going to involve some subs.
We're not going to be dealing with
airplanes today just because you've seen
me do that before. So, how do you do
this? Well, there's a couple rules of
thumb that work really, really well as
far as determining where things should
go. So, what I did is I sort of divided
the two forces up into what I call a AW
sort of ships and then of course ASW
ships. Generally, an AW ship. These tend
to be bigger ships. You can see I've got
the Bunker Hill there. You can see I
have the Sansion. Of course, you can
come down here. Of course, that would
not be how you pronounce that. I know.
We have the Extor. Of course, I grabbed
the Forbin, the Horizon class here.
Swinging down here are my ASW,
anti-ubmarine warfare. You've got the
Norfolk. Of course, I've got the Bremen.
That one I got right. The Carol Dorman,
and of course, we got our friends, the
Navara. In the middle of all this is, of
course, our Stenis. And then up front,
we have the Rubis as well as Virginia
here. So, we have a really, really,
really tight screen of ships. It's just
a matter of putting them in the right
spot. So generally the way we do this is
whenever you're dealing with anything a
a w the magic number works out to be
about 45 and you're sitting there going
that's cool. What does that mean? What
that means is if you were to take a unit
I'm going to borrow the tao here. I'm
going to park it over here. See this uh
kind of a slightly red almost I don't
want to call it a salmon color. Again
partially color blind here I work with
what I got. You'll notice this ring here
is my air defense range. You always want
to make sure it is 1/2 of a ring away
from the thing it is trying to protect.
Now, here's a cool thing. If I press
Ctrl D and drag a box from this, you'll
see it's 90 miles. Now, when you do the
math on that real quick, your brain
goes, "Haha, 45, correct?" So, not only
do we want to put it about 45 miles from
the carrier group, we also want to make
sure that it is in the place where the
danger is coming from. So, in this case,
if the danger were coming from France,
all we would do is basically position 45
miles in the direction of the threat. So
in this case, I'm going to press control
D, drag a line here to about 45 miles
and press the M key and go and go ahead
and pop them right there. Just like
that. So that's where Tao goes. Now
you're sitting here going, obviously the
enemy is not stupid. You're going to
need more than one of those ships at a
time. And I say, aha, that's not a
problem because it demonstrates the next
point. So we have this one. This is the
type of F124. I'm not even going to
pretend to pronounce it this time, which
has actually got some really, really
good weapons. And you'll notice its
maximum weapon engagement range for air
defense is also about 90. starting to
see where this is going to happen. Oh
yeah. Oh, just give me a minute. Wait
for the fun part. Wait for the fun part.
So, what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna grab
this guy. And again, we need to keep him
within 45 miles of the thing he's
protecting. And of course, we want to
make sure he has a 1/3 overlap with the
person he's working with. In this case,
my forget 219 is basically chilling out
with my CG-52 Bunker Hill. So, how do we
know that these are one-third
overlapping with each other? Well, this
is actually pretty cool. You go up to
map settings, range symbols, all units.
Okay, it's about to get a lot worse. So,
um, one of the things you can do is you
can turn on and off merging of range
symbols. Prepare to cry.
But the reason that I don't have to
worry about that too much here is, um,
we can disable all range indicators. Go
back up here, reenable just air weapons.
Tada. Look at how nice this is. So now
what we can do is we can grab the F-124
here and say, hey, there's a massive
overlap here. This is way more than a
one-/ird overlap with the thing I can
do. I could put this one over here and
still be legal. And that's exactly what
I'm going to do. Again, trying to keep
that 1/3 going here. That's about a
third of a ring. So, he's about 45 miles
away still. And he shares, you can kind
of take a look at this. They sort of
have this kind of co-helping each other
out. And they're within one/ird of a
ring of each other, which is exactly
what you want. So, this is perfect
placement for that unit. I actually got
lucky this time. That never happens.
Now, one of the things you'll notice is
our type 42 here, the exit, does not
have a 90 mile range. is a much much
more normal people range of about about
60 miles. So again, use one half of that
range as sort of your kind of way to
think about it. So 1 half of 60 of
course is 35. And the one thing we want
to be thinking about too is kind of how
we're going to plug our gap here. And
again, we're assuming France is the
threat here. So I'm going to grab this
one, pop it over here for now. Crl D.
I'm gonna measure about 35 miles. And
it's going to be about right there. I'm
gonna grab this one, park it right here.
So this is about 35 miles, give or take.
Actually, it's a little bit closer to
40. And of course, you can see we still
have that nice overlap. As a matter of
fact, the overlap is so large that this
one is completely engulfed.
Theoretically, if I wanted to be a
little brave, I could kind of bring it
around the south here, in which case
it's a little bit different of an angle.
But again, we're still fine. And that's
perfectly good place. Now, what about
the horizon here? Now, the horizon's got
a really good radar. I always like to
save one destroyer with the stuff that
doesn't go long distances and get it
nice and close to the actual thing it is
going to be protecting. Remember, the
cheap stuff always gets in front of the
expensive stuff. So, if I park this guy
a little bit behind, we're assuming
we're traveling north, by the way.
Little bit behind. This will not mask
the firearms of the actual carrier, but
it still provides a beautiful kind of a
range here. Now, if I actually go down
here, usually these are about a mile
apart. Now, you can see we're about
three miles here. So, I'll come about
we'll call 2.1 miles. That looks pretty
darn good. So, that's solid. Uh, that's
where the horizon's going to be
chilling. Excellent. So, what I'm going
to do now is I'm going to go ahead and
hide everything because it's getting a
little messy in here. And I'm going to
go ahead and turn on underwater weapons.
Now, there's a difference between
sensors and weapons. Weapons is our
effective weapon range. Sensors is
sensor range. Now, it's really important
you understand that concept because my
torpedo on the Bremen here can only
reach four miles effectively. Meanwhile,
of course, my Virginia uh Yeah, show off
21.6 nautical miles. Yeah, you do you
kind of a thing like that. The reality
is the underwater weapon range, we have
to be able to get to the target by
detecting it first and then getting
within our underwater weapon range. Keep
in mind that in the real world we have
helicopters to do this for us. We don't
have to move the ship. We just send a
helicopter while the ship keeps an eye
on the fun. So, one of the things we can
do here is instead of using the
underwater weapon range, we'll go ahead
and shut that off. We'll go ahead and
turn on the underwater sensor range.
Tada! Now we're cooking. So, one of the
things you'll notice is these cruisers
are fabulous. But that being said, this
still works perfectly fine for us
because we have our lovely Rubis here
and of course we have our Virginia. Now,
I can see there's a lot of overlap here.
So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to
park my Virginia. Generally, the rule is
20 miles from the HVT. So, I'm going to
go to this one. I'm going to go out to
about 20 miles. That looks pretty good
right there. Go ahead and grab this one.
Remember, the threat axis is France. So,
I'm going to come down here and grab
another 20 miles. And we're going to
park this one about right here.
Generally, I like to have submarines
ahead of my fleet, but again, just for
demonstration purposes, this works
pretty well. Let's go ahead and pull
these guys out of the way. Again, these
are my ASW frigots. I'm going to grab
all of them. And I could have sworn that
Dorman was a I might have made a mistake
on that one. And again, I'm perfectly
fine making mist. No, I'm not wrong.
This guy's fantastic at anti-ubmarine
warfare. What am I doing? All right. Did
I accidentally grab uh one of the other
ships by accident? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
Definitely did. So, in my infinite
brilliance, of course, I grabbed the one
ship that I needed to be in that
position and yonked it and put it
somewhere in the wrong spot. My bad. All
right, you all team up over there where
you're supposed to be. Okay, so we've
got our two submarines. Like I said, I
like submarines to be in advance of the
fleet. But when it comes to ASW, you can
be struck at any time, anywhere. So, I
always like to concentrate those at
about a 20 nautical mile per flank. So,
of course, we have a front, we got a
left, we got a south, or you say bottom
or behind, rear, aft, whatever you want
to call it. And we're going to park one
of those at each one of those points of
the cross. So, there's 20 miles. I'm
going to go ahead and pop the breman
right there. I'm going to grab this
buddy right here. I'm going to go ahead
and find about 20 miles to the right
here. Just like that. There's the Carol
Carl Carell. Again, I'm awful with these
things. I'm press uh go ahead and park
him over there like that. And let's go
get this guy and mark him over here like
that. Excellent.
So now we are in awesome shape here.
Oops. And I just unpaused. Silly. So
let's go ahead and now turn on my range.
Don't panic. Don't panic. Merge.
Continue not panicking. Continue not
panicking. Oh, there we are. Good. So we
have our ship in the middle. We have our
ASW ring at about 20 in half the missile
distances with overlapping fields of
fire for our lovely anti-aircraft
warfare weapons. Now, of course, you're
sitting here going, "Man, that's an
awful lot of ships protecting that
carrier." Well, if it's war time, you're
going to stack the deck a bit. So, is
this going to work? Let's find out. All
right, we've set up some shenanigans
here. So, one thing we do want to do is
get some radar coverage. And again,
having just a random vessel kind of
chilling in the way. Kind of a good way
to uh get yourself targeted is kind of
the best way to describe it. So, you
want to be a little strategic about the
way that you employ all of your radar
sensors, but again, that would be
something we cover in another video.
Regardless, standby for fireworks.
Standby for fireworks. Fireworks. Any
Probably would help if I set the other
team to actually be hostile to me.
That'll definitely change things. And I
don't think they're ever going to get a
chance to even get a single shot out
here. We probably should have used like
stealth weapons or something like that
cuz um I'm going to be honest with you,
there's no way they're going to get
within range. Oh, here comes the party.
Here comes the party. Party begins.
Uh oh, here comes our first loss. Oh,
there goes the frigot.
[Music]
Uhoh. Whoa. Whoa.
Nice. Oh, I think that one's still
chasing that one down. Woo. That was
fun. Now, the cool thing here is you
probably observed the fact that my Tao
got slammed. Um, the Tao also got
slammed by the world's probably one of
the world's best anti-hship missiles,
and it uh did not have its own radar
going at the time. So, um, that is
really, really, really impressive that
Tao could take a hit like that
completely unassisted. But it also shows
you kind of what I was saying before
where a carrier, which is really, really
important, valuable bit, is pretty fine.
And keep in mind, in the real world, you
wouldn't be not having an E2 keeping an
eye on that entire party. You know, if I
ran that again, but I had an E2 that
could see where things were coming at
us, they would never have gotten close
because again, F-35s would come find
them. But it gives you an idea of
exactly the goal, exactly the system,
and exactly kind of how everything
works. Enjoy.