# C: MO - Transferring Munitions from One Location to Another
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mj7PZ9nHYqI
Video ID: Mj7PZ9nHYqI

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be answering a viewer question
about transferring munitions between
locations. So, for the purpose of this,
I'm going to show you all the different
kind of minutia here, as well as kind of
show you the relevance of it. One thing
I'm going to tell you right now is once
you start going down the logistics
rabbit hole, be prepared to uh go all
the way to say the least. Anyway, let's
get started. So, we have ourselves the
SSGN 726 Ohio. It is just coming in. it
just dropped an entire rack of tactical
tomahawks and it would like to get some
more. Now, in this scenario, of course,
if we were to go into scenario features
and settings, one of the things you'll
observe is I don't have unlimited ammo,
which means my poor SSGN here is going
to have to get its missiles somewhere
else. Where is it going to get those
missiles from? Well, ideally, you would
get it from the factory, but in our
case, we're going to make it complicated
for the purposes of our example. So,
first things first, when you're dealing
with munitions as cargo, munitions as
cargo needs to come in a box. I know
that sounds like, yeah, what do you
mean? Like, what's the point? Well, this
is what I mean. Let's take this ammo
truck for example. This is a facility.
It actually consists of four smaller
ammo trucks. You will notice here is if
I come to the edit cargo button. I'm in
the scenario editor here. Uh, we can
take a look. Um, this is it. I can
create cargo. Obviously, I'm not going
to load the truck onto the truck, but
you'll notice I can't actually carry
anything on this particular unit. Um,
and you're sitting there going, "But
it's an ammo truck. I've seen you use it
to supply things in the past. What's
your secret?" Well, normally what you
would do is you go to magazines, you go
to munitions, and you can see I've got
it loaded up with some sidewinders, for
example. But the reality is is unless
I'm providing a tank that shoots side
winders with side winders, this
particular ammo truck is going to do
nothing for the purposes of actually our
cargo operation here. We need something
that can actually carry the box. If you
can't carry the box, you can't move the
cargo. That's the easiest way to think
about it. So, what I have here is I have
an M1074 Alpha 1 PLS, which is a Hemmit.
Best way to think about this thing is a
big old truck. Now, it's very obvious
from looking at this picture here. It's
a big old truck. Uh the reason that's
important is you'll notice it has a
cargo capacity of 9 tons and 16 square
meters of area. That's really, really
important because without that area, we
can't put the box in it that holds the
thing. I know that sounds kind of like
obvious, but it you'll you'll see what I
mean when we get to that point. So,
let's say I want this truck to deliver
some stuff. And why we don't have a
generic tractor trailer blows my mind a
little bit. Like, I'm not going to worry
about that or anything, but it's just
not there. So, I'm going to grab my
truck here. I'm going to go ahead and
edit its cargo right now. It is
completely empty. So, what we're going
to do is we're going to put a box on the
back of this containing our tomahawk
that we need, deliver it to the air
base, fly it from the air base to the
naval subyard. Watch the magic. So, I'm
going to go to database real quickly
here, and I need to get the box. So,
there's a lot of different boxes, and
they're called containers in this
program. You'll notice I have things as
basic as a generic wooden pallet, which
are very limited for tomahawks. And of
course, I have things that are more
useful for me, such as iso containers, a
20footer here, which is perfect for us.
16 square meters. It's got 2.26 mass.
Now, this is where you're going to get
frustrated. You will observe that the
box, the container, like I'm going to
keep calling the box here, weighs 226,
16 area. But you'll notice my truck has
an area of 016, mass of 09. Do you see
the nine? Important. Watch this. So, I'm
going to go ahead and throw on one of
these ISO containers. Do you see
everybody turn red? This ISO container
now is the entire back half of this
truck, which is correct. That's what we
want. But there's nothing in it. So,
what we want to do is fill it up with
tomahawks. So, I'm going to come down
here to edit container. If you're
playing a scenario, you will not have
this button. Honestly, I This is going
to sound cursed, but I would never play
this game not scenario editor mode. I
know that sounds like, oh, but you can
cheat. I don't care. It's just easier.
All right, edit container. Let's throw
in some tomahawks. I happen to have this
ready from last time. As you can see,
there's our tomahawks. We need number
377. This is a UGM 109 Echo. So, we're
going to go ahead and load one at a
time. You're saying load all of them at
a time. Uh, no. Watch. See what I mean?
Obviously, if you're dealing with a
container vessel, you can do quite a bit
more. Do you see how it yells at me and
says, "You can't put any more in the
container. What are you thinking?" Now,
you're sitting there going, "But the
container can hold 22." Oh, the truck
can only hold 8.26. You got it. If you
fill the box with stuff, like at a
factory, for example, and try to jam it
on the truck and it's heavier than the
truck can take, it will not work. I
can't say that enough because you will
make that mistake. All right. So, our
ISO container, the box, is now
containing all of our yummy delicious um
I don't know, apparently candy cane
tomahawks, whatever. And we're going to
deliver these to Barnes so that we can
actually go ahead and deliver them down.
Obviously, I can take this truck in
order to go down Route 91, Route 95, and
go drop them off. But that's too easy.
We got to make things complicated for no
reason. So, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to head to our Barnes Air Force
base here. He's going to stop at Toby
Cove for some lunch. You'll probably see
me there. The weather's been awful for
flying. And what I'm going to do is have
this truck drop our friends the missiles
off at Barnes so I can transfer them.
Before I do that, one of the things I
want to do is I want to make sure the
ammo box is obvious. Ammo box. Now, the
reason I'm doing this is I want to make
it obvious where I'm going to drop them
off to. One of the oversightes of this
process is I can't just kind of click on
these things and know what it is
immediately unless you named it in a way
that makes it obvious. You'll see what I
mean in a minute. All right, I'll click
on my truck. I'll press cargo. And we're
pressing edit cargo here. This is real
RLG mode, whatever you want to call it.
So, what you have here is a new box that
has the box. It tells us what's in it,
and it tells us we can transport it or
we can unload it. I don't recommend
unloading it. You basically drop a bunch
of tomahawks on the roof of this
vehicle. That can be kind of amusing,
but that's useless because we're not
dragging the tomahawks around. We need
to move the box to get the box to, like
I said, nace. All right. So, what I'm
going to do is click transfer cargo.
Now, remember a minute ago I said you
should label it something obvious. Hey,
hey, I labeled it something obvious and
I don't have any problems. Confirm. Now,
when you're ready, make sure you pick
the thing you want to actually move
here. So, in this case, I'm moving the
box from the M107 to the ammo box.
Unload all. This will take time. As you
can see here, it will take 45 minutes to
unload this cargo here. So, I actually
got to go to uh
and we're done. So, our truck now, if I
were to click on the cargo button,
notice it's non-existent. Is empty. It
dropped that box off containing our
tomahawk missiles. Now, if I come back
over here to Barnes real quick and I go
to my ammo box, you'll notice it has a
new thing on it that says cargo one. And
it now has my box of tomahawks. It's all
ready to rock, so to speak, kind of a
thing like that. So, what we can do now
is we can now transport the ammo box all
the way down to the submarine base.
We'll do that next. I'll grab my barns.
I'll skip the C7s and grab my CH53s.
Grab this one. Cargo Ops. I'm going to
go ahead and grab my ISO container
containing remember it actually shows
you the unit here which makes it a
little easier for you. Containing my
missiles. Remember, you've got to have
enough room on the super stallion to
carry this. Otherwise, you're busted.
Once again, fortunately, I happened to
do the math on this earlier, so I know
that it'll work. Confirm. Notice it's
going to take them almost a half of an
hour to take that giant 20ft container
with our five tomahawks and ram it into
the back. That's good because we have
some work to do. What we're going to do
is we're going to send a ferry mission
down here. So, I'm going to press Ctrl+
F11. I'm going to say drop off. Drop off
explosive candy canes. There we go.
Nice. We're going to do this as a cargo
mission. It's going to be a transfer.
I'm going to press okay. And the only
thing we really have to do here is
pause. I always make that mistake
sometimes. Drop that down here. It's
going to say, "What would you like to
do?" We can move all cargo, which is
fine, but like I said, everything's
already preloaded. You can see it's
already loading. It knows we're doing
that. Now notice automatically unpack
container contents at destination. This
is really cool because that means when
it gets there, it's going to empty the
box. That's good because then we can
grab the box and bring it back home. So
I'm actually going to order this command
here. This is going to make this so so
so much easier. And again, you can
actually see that we've selected that. I
did put a helipad there to make it
possible. All right, everything's set.
We're ready to rock. This is where the
fun starts. So, we got to wait about 30
minutes or so before we'll be able to
actually launch thing. Cargo takes time,
folks. It doesn't matter how aggressive
you want to be with it. It It always
takes time, but you can see here we have
about a minute and a half to go before
we're ready to deploy. And again,
remember, we're moving the box. We're
not moving the tomahawks themselves.
Click. Uh-oh. He's taxing to take off.
He's got about a minute and a half
ready. Sort of wish there was a little
like that progress bar. I know that's a
little gamey, but like like a dramatic
like sound effect that like builds up. I
mean, it would be the engines starting
or whatever. And he's now taken off. It
takes him 30 seconds to get airborne.
And believe it or not, those numbers are
awesome. That's really fast for a
helicopter. So, let's grab this guy.
We'll go and press the T key. And you
can see he is now on his way. Now, the
crazy thing here is you'll notice in the
upper right it says cargo now. So, if I
click him, he's got the box. Isn't that
kind of fun? The T key, by the way, if
you want to goof off like that. So,
notice how slow he's flying here. He's
doing a actually a$145 is pretty quick
for a helicopter. Now, what he's going
to do is he's going to come into a
landing at our naval air station here.
I got like Jurassic Park. Like anytime I
see helicopters like landing at
something, I get the Jurassic Park a
journey to the island of my head. And
now our helicopter has landed on our
naval air base. And you can actually see
here he's basically finishing up his
landing. Go. It's going to take him
about half a minute to do, which is
pretty darn quick. The other thing
you'll notice is if I click here, you'll
notice we have not actually done
anything as far as loading or unloading.
Just it takes time. You can't just throw
these things out. That's, like I said,
very important. Did you just see what I
just saw? You now observe our explosive
candy canes have been delivered. You can
see we got five of them ready to go. Our
helicopter, of course, at this pace. If
you take a look at him right now, you
can see he's got an hour and 59 minutes
to go there. He's going through the
motions, basically refueling, rearming.
But you want to see something so cool? I
can go down to cargo ops and I can put
the empty box back inside of him. Just
like that. Isn't that wild? I'm actually
going to eject the empty box. And
there's a reason why I want to eject the
empty box is because I want to send some
gifts back over to Barnes so that you
can see this. In fact, by the way, now
that the tactical tomahawks are
available, they will be loaded onto our
submarine who's chilling here. You can
see he's got zero right now. They will
be loaded as I'm talking kind of a
thing. So, put up with me kind of a
deal. All right. So, we want to find
where the box is. So, if I click here
and minimize this a little bit. If I
come to Naval Air Station, I'm just
going to do the same trick I did before
where I just kind of rip through. There
should be a icon that tells you there's
cargo in something. This should be a
thing in this game. All right. Uh, I saw
boats. We don't care about that. We're
just looking for wherever he dropped the
box. Where'd you put the box? Bingo. The
box got dropped off here. Which is
actually pretty irritating. I'm going to
take that and put it somewhere where I
know where it is. So, I'm going to take
this, transfer it, and I'm going to put
it over on ammo box one or something
like that. Here it is. Ammo bunker one.
Confirm. Move it over. Confirm. Much,
much better. That means that instead of
sitting on the pier like it was a minute
ago, it's up here in this box here,
which is awesome because now we can fill
it up with goodies that we're stealing
from this naval subbase and sending it
back home. Uh, let's see. What should we
fill it up with? Let's go to magazines
real quick. Uh, add weapons. We We need
something. I guess we do like 12.7.
I'm pretty sure I did 12.7. There it is.
Um, what should we do here? I'll send
him a bunch of bullets or something like
I said. Keep it easy. Uh, burst two.
That's a big gun. Um, let's see. 800
rounds. We'll do 800 rounds. Why
not?Oop.
There we go. That's technical sound for
the sound that makes. So, I've got a
bunch of ammo here. And what I want to
do is put it in the box. Now, if you're
playing in regular single player here,
you'll notice if you click cargo now,
there's my box and there's the container
button down here. Now, if I press
container, you can see that this is the
items that are on my ammo pad. And then
on the left here, you can see what's in
the box. Remember, we emptied the box
and we're just going to refill it here.
Now, you got to be careful with this.
You'll notice here that it's mass is 24,
it's area is 20.8. You'll notice our
mass is 0 and 20. You'll notice our area
is 0 and 16. Remember that your
helicopter does not have unlimited mass.
You've got to remember that. Otherwise,
you're going to get really mad. So, I'm
actually going to load half of the ammo
here. You can see that gets us 12 tons.
That gets us 65 area. I'm going to press
confirm. Now, the moment you do that,
this box now is loaded up with that
stuff that we took out of the magazine
to load it. So, I'm going to go ahead
and close this. Now, I'll go run down
here back to my naval subbase. F6.
Remember, we're reing him. I'm going to
go to cargo ops. Look at this. There's
my box with the ammo. Load. Do you see
what I just did there? I took the ammo
out of here. Loaded it into here. And
then when I press confirm, of course,
it's going to start going through the
motions of loading him up for that
purpose. We actually got to delete this
over here. Um, let's see here. We want
to delete that mission. Doesn't do
anything for us anymore. So, we're going
to set the time to ready for this guy to
be pretty darn quick. We'll do like 01.
Again, that's a really fast cargo job
there. Speed up time a little bit. All
right, that should be plenty. If I go
back to the subbase and I go to my
helicopter, if I go to cargo ops, you
can see the container is loaded and
ready to go. So, I'm going to go ahead
and said, "Hey, why don't you go ahead
and take off?" I know it's going to take
two minutes to take off. That's cool. C
cool with me. That's one of the two
minutes there. And again, I can just I
can monitor the status by coming over
here and looking. It's 48 seconds. You
can see it updates smoothly. And engine
started, we're taking off. We'll be in
the air in 30 seconds. Bam. We're in the
air. So now if I click on this
helicopter, look at this. I go to cargo
and there's my box of 12.7 mm
ammunition. So now if I wanted to, I
could go like that. Go ahead and right
click just for this example. Select the
new home base. I'm going to send him
back to Barnes. Press B. And what he'll
do is we'll actually fly back home with
that box full of ammo. Meanwhile, what I
want to see while he's on his way is if
I open up my submarine, you'll notice
I'm starting to load up those explosive
candy canes. They're getting ready to
go. So, let's go ahead and follow this
guy all the way back home here.
I don't want to follow him anymore. That
looks good to me.
And he's just going to settle. Look how
much fuel that burns. Oh, smokes. So,
now this is where things get fun. You'll
notice that that helicopter landed. Now,
if I press F6 here and go look at him,
you can see he's basically getting ready
to go. If I open up his I don't think we
can do cargo apps on him yet because we
got to give him some time. There we go.
Like I said, a little bit of time. These
things take a while. There we go. You
can see he's got two hours to get some
gas. If we go to cargo ops, we can see
here that he automatically took all that
lovely stuff he just landed with and
basically dumped it directly onto the
what is this? The tarmac. Yes, it
dropped it on the tarmac space here. It
dropped off in this particular tarmac
space. So, that's not very helpful to
us. But, the cool thing, too, of course,
is we can go find out which one it
dropped us on. Like I said, there should
be a slightly easier way to do this, but
it is what it is. And I'm just looking
for the word cargo to appear here. Woo,
that's not confusing. Let me find it for
us. Gotcha. So now if I go to cargo, I
can now grab this, transfer it, put it
in the ammo box. Confirm. And now that
it is in the ammo, I have to pick what I
want to put. Put that stupid box of
bullets in the ammo box. That sounds
very obvious, I guess. Confirm. And now
our ammo box is got the original
container with its original um actually
not original, it's new contents. So now
if I were to go to the cargo menu here,
you can see there's the box again. If I
go to container, I can now empty it into
the ammo bunker. Ready? Confirm. Tada.
So now I took those ammos. I delivered
missiles down to the naval air station
and I came back with bullets on that
original container that was delivered
from that truck. If that's not
sophisticated logistics in action, I
don't know what is. Enjoy.