# C: MO - How to calculate Torpedo Performance
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=njLblgsMRuM
Video ID: njLblgsMRuM

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be answering the age-old
question, how far could my torpedo go
and still hit a target? Now, that sounds
like kind of an obvious sort of thing.
You know, depending on what you've done
in previous videos, especially if you
played plenty of Silent Hunter, you have
a pretty good idea of roughly how far a
torpedo can travel, but it actually is a
complicated geometrical problem. And I
don't think that's a word, but I just
used it anyway. So, we're going to go
ahead and grab our victory here. Now,
we're creeping up on an American Knox
ship here. And what we want to do is we
want to strike it with one of these
brand new Physic 1 torpedoes. Now, the
Physic 1 is a really cool torpedo. It
has a two big things that it does well.
You'll notice that it has a cruise speed
of 70 knots for 11 miles, and it has a
slow speed. This is McKinatic range they
call it, for 30 knots. It certainly
isn't a Mark 48 as far as range goes,
but 70 knots is an awful lot of speed.
Now, if I scroll down here, you also
notice that when we're cruising at full
speed here, we're using 4.66 fuel points
per second. If you do the math on that,
I think it's like 9 minutes of fuel time
if you want to think about it. And of
course, if you're doing cruise, kind of
chilling here. We got these kind of low
speed sort of stuff here. So, you're
looking here at our scenario going, "Ah,
we want to go ahead and strike that
target." So, I'm going to click this
one. And you'll notice they're at a
range of about 10 miles for us. And
you're sitting here going, "All right,
go ahead and press that shift F1. Let's
blast that sucker." So, I click on it,
and you will observe the fact that this
weapon will not fire. The reason it
won't fire is because it's outside of
its DLZ range, a dynamic launch zone.
You're like, "Ba." I say, "Ba." It
should work anyway. So, you say, "Okay,
then let me make sure my settings are
set correctly." Let's see here. Torpedo
range. Use kinematic range for
torpedoes. Manual fire only.
Interesting. It's already been preset to
allow us to do that. And it still says
it's outside of the DLC range. That's
because you have an interesting little
math problem here. If we take a shot at
a target that is less than 11 miles
away, we're going to be using 70 knots.
But that also means that my effective
range of my torpedo is exactly 11 miles.
Now, if you do the math on that real
quick, let me go ahead and pop that
right here. This is the maximum range of
the torpedo. Meaning, if this ship
crosses past this point, in the time it
takes the torpedo, keep in mind that's
about 9-minute travel time, by the way.
In the time it takes to get here, this
guy automatically wins because he just
outran the torpedo because the torpedo
would run out of fuel before it gets to
him. Start to see why this gets a little
complicated. So, you're like, "Ah, fine.
It's a Nox class. Its top speed is only
27 knots. I'm going to take the long
range shot." Okay, let's see. Long range
says we get 22 nautical miles. Go right
here.
Now, you're sitting here going, "This
math problem just got a lot harder." If
I take a shot at the maximum speed of
the torpedo, he gets from here to here,
I miss. If I take a shot at the minimum
speed of my torpedo, he gets from here
to here. That's a whole 11 nautical
miles he gets to travel before my
torpedo will get to him, assuming he
goes flank speed as soon as he picks up
the incoming torpedo. So, you're sitting
here doing the math in your head going,
"Yeah, there's no way he could get that
far away from me in that time." Except
that he can. Let me show you why. Let's
think for a second here that he detects
our torpedo launch immediately and spins
up to 27 knots. Our torpedo, which is
traveling 30 knots, is now chasing it
down. As a matter of fact, we can even
demonstrate this. Let's go ahead and do
a bearing only launch here. I'll go
ahead and pop one of these things off,
and it will do a great little
demonstration for me as it comes
ripping. That is an interesting problem
because that means for every 27 nautical
miles this travels, this one travels 30
nautical miles. Meaning over the course
of an entire hour, I only travel three
nautical miles farther than this target.
So, you're going, "Uh-oh, I know what
that means." Yeah, exactly. That means
my effective chase speed is 3 knots. If
you want to see the math on that real
quickly, 30 knots of the torpedo minus
27 knots of the target is 3 knots.
That's it. That's the only speed
difference I have on the target, which
means it's going to be chasing this guy
down effectively at this speed. Now, it
gets really, really interesting here
because the fact is you can actually see
my target starting to turn. Smart
target, by the way. That means he has to
travel this distance in that time. So,
let's see here. 11 nautical miles. You
can do the math immediately in your
head. 11 nautical miles. But keep in
mind, we're only going to gain three
nautical miles over the course of 1
hour, which means our effective distance
that we have to travel is about there in
that amount of time, and we will
basically have outrun our torpedo. Just
to give you a visual for how far and how
long it's actually going to take to
track this thing down. Now, the
interesting thing here, as you'll point
out as well, is by the time the target
gets to about here, uh, right about
where my mouse is, this torpedo is just
going to be running out of room, which
is, like I said, kind of interesting. to
demonstrate this. What I'm actually
going to do is I'm going to grab the
other side here. I'm going to go ahead
and uh set the entire side to blind
because you got to you got to see this
to believe this. Like I said, once you
see it, you'll know exactly what I mean.
So, I'm going to set them to blind. They
can't see anything. I'm going to go and
unassign. I'm going to go like this. I'm
going to go flank speed. That way, you
can actually see it side by side. Now,
watch this. Watch this. Watch how
disappointing this is. All right. So,
here we go. Uh I don't want you um
dodging. You are not allowed to dodge.
Let me go ahead and drop all my targets
here because I want to demonstrate this
beautifully. Now, get up. Unassign.
You're not allowed. F3. Go, go, go, go.
Maximum speed. Go, go, go, go, go. All
right. Watch this. Watch this. Go the
other way. Now, check it out. Check it
out. Check it out. So, this target is
now being chased down by a torpedo. This
torpedo here is doing 70 knots. Uh, it
was fired at its high speed. Now, watch
this. This will put a smile on your
face. So, this thing is going to travel
this far from the range target. But
watch what happens to our friend the
torpedo here. I'm going to get you. I'm
going to get you. Watch this. Watch
this. Targeting. Targeting. Scanning.
Scanning. Scanning. Scanning. Scanning.
A.
As you could see, our torpedo completely
ran out of fuel just like I told you it
would. Now, look at how embarrassing
this part is. You thought that was
silly. Watch how silly this is. So, I'm
going to go ahead and now put on my
God's eye view again. No, go ahead and
set up the shot. Let's go do uh what do
we say? I think we started at about 10.
Let's put him right there. Watch this.
So, you're going to be like, "Okay,
let's see the long range shot." You just
go ahead and embarrass us. Okay, long
range shot. Here we go. Bam.
Did I launch a missile? Oh, that was
embarrassing.
I don't know. It's just exciting. It's
the first thing I saw on the list. All
right, fire. So, now we're firing the
same torpedo. And like I said before,
we're going to be firing at the low
speed. We're only going to be doing 30
knots. All right, watch this. This is
Look at how sad this is. Go torpedo. Go,
go, go.
See, actually, we got a little more
range out of it than it was advertised.
I'm actually kind of excited about that.
But look at this. And it ran out of
fuel.
So, what is the practical takeaway from
this? Uh, the practical takeaway is
this. If you were going to be taking a
shot at a target, what you need to do is
you need to know how fast that target
can go, which again, since you
identified already, it should be pretty
easy. You need to know exactly how far
it can travel in the difference in time
for it. Let's go ahead and reset our
scenario and actually run a practical
example here. Now that you kind of get
the gist, let's go take a look at it.
So, we're going to take a shot and we're
going to do a tail shot at something
that's uh probably cannot run from us.
So, we'll go ahead and do uh we'll do 11
miles. We'll do 11 and a half miles
away. Looks good to me. I'm going to go
ahead and do a cargo ship here.
Something nice and slow. Panamax. We'll
do Panamax here. Actually, uh, we'll do
Panax. We'll do Panamax. That's fine.
All right. Um, that's good for me. Let's
go. Press. Okay. Of course, here's the
joke. One hit will not do any damage to
this thing. Uh, that's fine. All right.
So, we'll point him this way like this.
We're going to put him up to flank speed
and we'll work out the example directly.
All right. Unbause. Now, of course, it's
going to take a half a second for
everybody to like detect stuff. Hey,
there he is. Of course, I made a boo boo
there because he's right next to me.
Go away. All right, let's get that.
What' I say about 11 miles?
There we go. All fixed.
All right, so let's do it.
So, we have our shot now. And again, we
can actually be kind of fun here. We can
come up to periscope depth and like not
feel self-conscious about it. I'm
actually going to kick my speed up a
little bit here. Um, you would never
periscope depth and cruise speed because
you'd leave his massive feather in the
water. It'd be very obvious where you
are, but I'm an idiot and I'm just I
know I can get away with this. So, I'm
going to get away with it. I'm going to
pop up to the surface and take a look
around with my scope. Look at that.
There he is. Just looking at him through
my little periscope here. Feeling pretty
confident. I'm probably reading off his
serial number right now. Getting ready.
All right, let's do it. So, we're going
to go ahead and take a shot. And as you
probably would guess, if I do shift F1
right now and click on him, I am still
Well, I've got another five seconds
before I can take the shot. Take the
shot. Come on, torpedo cruise. I'm
waiting on you. I'm waiting on you. All
right, let's try that again. You'll
notice I can actually take the shot now.
And uh the game is smart enough to know
that because I'm in uh that range
because that target is moving as slow as
it is, it can probably get to the target
in time here. But keep in mind, I am
going to be firing at that lovely uh
basically 20 knots speed there. But
we're going to do it anyway because uh
this is going to be a great
demonstration of math in action here.
Fire.
Okay, so this target is traveling four
knots. Uh the top speed on this one, I
believe. Let's get the top speed here.
Four knots. We'll grab this one. What do
we get? Cuz he's going to be running uh
16 knots. Delightful. So that means,
let's do the math. As this thing's on
its way,
30 knot torpedo minus a 16 knot target
is an effective speed of 14 knots. 14
knots is pretty handy there. So that
means my chase here is actually going to
be taking place at 14 knots, not at 30
knots, of course. So all we have to do
now is work out how long is it going to
take to cover this distance. So if I
measure that again real quick, that's 11
nautical miles. So let's see here. 11
nautical miles at 14 knots. That's oh my
goodness,
that's 47 minutes.
That is a very long time. But like I
said, that's part of the fun. So, it's
going to take 47 minutes for our target
to actually hit the uh two weapons
because it's a tail chase here. So,
looking up a time it is is 9:31. Uh we
can do the math on that real quick. 31
and 41 mod 60 is going to be Oh, boy.
That's uh 10. Oh my goodness. Uh - 60.
Yeah, that's going to be 12 after Oh my
goodness. So, that's Yeah. So, it's
going to be basically 12 after 10:00 by
the time this torpedo gets to the
target. Don't believe me? Watch.
He's running.
You're sitting there looking at the W.
You're looking at your stopwatch now and
I'm looking at my stopwatch and we're
both getting panicky on each other
going, "Who's going to be right here?
Look at how long this takes.
Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. Now
you're going to get mad at me. You're
going to get mad at me. Here it comes.
Here it comes. Here it comes." Bam. So,
you're mad at me and you're saying, "But
you said it was going to be 12 minutes
past the hour hot shot. Why is it 4
minutes past the hour?" The reason is
actually really simple. If you notice my
target, it took a left turn and started
running left on the torpedo, which
created a little bit of a geometrical
challenge for it, which actually reduced
the distance between the torpedo and the
target, which actually made it easier
and saved me six minutes. So, as you can
see, torpedoes are not nearly as
effective as you expected them to be in
range, which is one of the reasons why
they list a lot of those torpedo ranges
as um basically an effective range.
Again, your effective range is so much
less than your real range, and you could
see that in action. Now, I know you're
dying to see me do it again and actually
get it at 12 minutes, but that was some
pretty quick back of the envelope/
Windows calculator math that
demonstrated beautifully. Now, here's
kind of a fun thing. Did you notice how
far we just traveled to get to where we
went? Let me see if I can turn this on
real quick. I don't know if it's going
to track that. Uh, let's see here. Unit
trails. A see, because it didn't have
trails on before. You can't see it, but
keep in mind in that time we travel that
far. And it gives you an idea of how
insane these kinds of shots are and just
how incredibly powerful modern torpedo
batteries are to be able to hold on to a
chase that long. Now, the cool thing
here is you're going, "Hey, this is kind
of cool." Yeah. Here's the fun part.
This works with missiles, too. But
that's for another day.