# C: MO - Setting a Specific Aircraft Altitude to Employ Weapons
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O4HTj5ct7yg
Video ID: O4HTj5ct7yg

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be answering a question about
selecting the manual altitude for weapon
release. Now, this is one of those
things that I always take for granted
that uh when you do automatic attacks
with no sort of manual anything that it
basically picks the optimum altitude for
an attack. Now, let me show you why that
would be a problem. So, I have my F16
here. I'm going to press my lovely F1
key. I'm going to go ahead and select
this vehicle depot here. And our F-16 is
going to get himself into a position to
drop his weapons. Now, if I open up the
weapons page real quick, I actually let
the main game keep going here. You'll
notice that our launch altitude is
between 800 ft above ground level and
65,000 ft above sea level. I know that
they sneak that in there just to confuse
you. But the reality is that's a pretty
wide range of deployment of a weapon. As
a matter of fact, if I speed up time a
little bit for our little F-16 buddy
here, I always feel bad for Black
Island. It's just such a convenient
target. I mean, it's like right there,
right? So, he's going to go ahead and
overfly. And I'm going to go ahead and
press F1. Go ahead and click on him one
more time. We are technically on
automatic course mode. He's getting
himself into position. You can see with
the little 3D view there, he's optimally
placing himself. He's putting the pipper
on the target CCP mode. And now he's
going to go zipping and ripping right by
the target and disappointing all of us.
And you're sitting here going, "That
makes no sense. He was perfectly fine.
Why did he not fire?" Well, let's go
back to the standard thing with all
things command. And let's go ahead and
get them a little bit closer. Press
shift F1, then click the target. As you
can see here, we have our Mark 82 500
pounders ready to go. You can see we are
okay to fire them. When we tried to drop
them the first time, I don't know if you
were aware, but we were actually
traveling at an oblique to the target,
which means we never ever actually got
the shot, but that's regardless. I'm
going to go ahead and allocate
everything and go ahead and unpause. So,
as you can see, our lovely F-16 has
deposited uh not one but 12 Mark 82s
with the best and latest and greatest
F-16 aiming technology upon our target,
which is way down there. Now, by way
down there, we're talking a distance of
about 6 miles. Now, I don't know about
you, but I got a feeling we're not going
to do a lot of damage here. Yeah, that
was a waste of ammunition. So, as you
can see, um, none of these even came
close. Uh, no units affected. They near
missed. Near miss means hit. Uh, 1,000
ft off. So, that was an absolute failure
on our part. So, we're going to go and
reopen the mission here. We're going to
play smart. Like I said, build you up a
little bit, one understanding at a time,
as they say. So, what I'm going to do
now is I'm going to go ahead and grab
this guy. I'm going to order him to go
to a much lower altitude. I'm going to
send him to about 12,000 ft here. Go
ahead and speed up time a little bit
here. He's going to come flying down.
It's great thing about an F-16. It comes
down in a hurry. Uh-oh. Here we go again
with buttons. All right. So, we've got
ourselves in position. We're cruising
over the target. We're going to make
sure absolutely that we're right over
the center. I'm going to press F1 again.
If you select the target first, F1. Go
ahead and click on him. Again, this is
an automated attack. Automated attack.
Before he gets in position, I'm going to
make sure he's in automatic mode. So
again, nothing's telling him not to do
what he's about to do here. So he's
going to come ripping over the target.
And there is our bombs. And as you
observed, we got a direct hit. Now,
there's a couple little pieces there
that are a little tricky to notice. One
thing you'll notice here is that we got
one within pretty much right on top of
it. So it slammed into that depot and
did a pretty darn nice job of it. So
what was different? Well, the big
difference you probably observed is
before we dropped our weapon, I pressed
the F2 key. And when I was inside the F2
key, one of the things you'll have
observed is I selected an altitude that
I wanted him to drop the weapons at and
actually ordered the attack and then I
could actually cancel my automatic
attack to enable it to go ahead and
deploy those weapons at that altitude.
Works great. Right now, let me show you
the situation when this breaks down. So,
what I'm going to do is create a strike
mission on the target. Shoot this thing.
We're going to go ahead and make it a
land strike mission and press okay.
We're going to go over here. We're going
to go ahead disable the uh enforce
flight size. Otherwise, it's going to
give us issues. We're going to toss that
F-16 into there. You can see it
instantly creates the flight plan. It
instantly creates all the doodads and
boohookies. Let's see. Continue mission.
Let's looks fine. Agent Winchester.
We're going to give him all the orders
in the world. Now, we are not issuing
any orders to our F16 buddy here. He is
completely on his own. You can see there
he's hit way point 4 and he's starting
to prepare for his attack. Now,
everything's on automatic here. I mean,
I can click over here and press
automatic. He's doing all of his job.
Actually, as a matter of fact, I clicked
him off of automatic because when he
hits the new waypoint, it'll actually
snap him back to that mode. What you'll
observe here is he's 1,460
ft above ground level. Now, for those of
you who are familiar with the ZSU23,
especially the four barrel version with
a radar on the top, that would make
Swiss cheese out of our F-16 here at
this altitude. And also, the added
accuracy of this altitude is worthless.
So, you can see F16 does his little rip.
Beautiful, beautiful hit here. But he
did the entire thing at 1,460 ft. Now,
if you do the math on that real quick,
like I said, you'd realize that's bad
news for an F-16, and that ain't going
to go well. So, how are you supposed to
tell this F-16 that you actually wanted
to travel at a specific altitude when
you do a strike mission? Now, this is
actually a little bit trickier than it
is. You think it is, but it's not bad.
So, I'm going to click on the target.
I'm going to press Crl F11 more time, or
I'm press F12 in my case. Uh, destroy
again. That's how you spell it again,
but oh well. We're going to do a land
strike there. Press okay. We're going to
go ahead and fix the thing before it
breaks again. Let me go ahead and set
all my stuff in here. Looks good to me.
Okay, let's add our F-16, but this time
we're going to cheat a little. So now,
one of the things you probably observed
is the fact that these little waypoints
were created in the worlds. As a matter
of fact, if I look at this one, this is
IP5. I can go click somewhere else and
go grab this one real quick. If I were
to press F2, you can see I can actually
dial in the desired altitude for my
strike here. As a matter of fact, you
can see right now it's 1,000 ft. Let's
say I want to do 4,500 ft above ground
level. So, I can actually order that
particular thing to happen. Now, here's
where the magic starts. If I go to my
next waypoint, which of course is
conveniently going to be my final
waypoint, which is going to be the one
that's going to do the deed here. I'm
going grab my F16 buddy and hit F2 real
fast. Uh, let's see here. F2. We need
way point uh what do we need? That's the
landing waypoint. Whoopsy daisies. Oh
boy. Egress landing marshall. We don't
need any There go. Target waypoint.
Found it. All we have to do now is come
in here and manually set it to whatever
we want. So I can do 4,500 ft. Helps if
you click the button before you type it.
Not 4,500 ft above ground level. Cool,
huh? So now watch what happens when I
close this. RF16 here is going to be
cruising around. You can see he's
dipping down. RF6 dips if you prefer.
He's gone down to 1,000 ft above ground
level here. He's sneaking up on that
first IP. He hits the IP and what would
you look at? He jumped up to 4,000 ft.
He's going to start descending again,
but then he realizes the target's right
there. He's going to pop up and drop his
bombs just like a pro. Bam. Look at
that. Slammed to that target. And we
have the added benefit of being a little
bit higher up in case that Zeus wants to
shoot us down. So, as you can see, that
is the trick to manually deploying
weapons. Keep in mind, these aircraft
have smart enough AI that if there's
some kind of weather pattern that's kind
of interfering with things, they know to
stay underneath it if they want to use
like a laser guided bomb, which once
again will put you right in the line of
fire with the Zeus. Enjoy.