# C: MO - Keyboard Camera Controls
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PwQEW34ng28
Video ID: PwQEW34ng28

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be showing you some basic
camera controls. Now, one of the things
that blows my mind is the fact I didn't
make this the first video ever because
it's actually pretty fundamental stuff.
The first command control I'm going to
show you is how to make a unit a quick
viewed unit. Uh, simply select the unit
you're interested in, hold down the
control key, and then press a number key
at the top of your keyboard. I'm going
to call the C130 item one. I'm going to
click on my B-52, control 2 for item
two. I'm going to use this air base as
item three. Control 3. Now, if I come
all the way down here in the middle of
the ocean and I press the number one on
my keyboard, it'll instantly snap to
where that B-52 is currently located. If
I press two, it'll snap to my buddy, the
C130. And if I press three, it's going
to take me up to this air base. Now, one
of the things I want to warn you about
with that one is the fact that this goes
by units position. It doesn't go by
where you are in the map. I can't sit
here and go control 4 and then press the
floor key. Uh, nothing will happen here
because that won't work. Now, another
thing that would probably I never really
thought of is you can actually use the
arrow keys for the purposes of panning
around the map. Now, one of the things
that makes this kind of useful here is
for some reason your mouse is like kind
of in a weird spot or you just want to
go one to the right or something like
that. You can actually use the arrow
keys for this. But one of the fun things
you can also do here is you can actually
press Z to zoom in and X to zoom out.
The kind of the fun thing with that, of
course, is that gives you the ability to
go, wow, party on. Excellent. Now, I
don't want to make anybody sick here,
but the reality is sometimes having that
set fixed zoom can be a valuable tool.
Now, one other thing we're going to show
you, too, while we're kind of doing our
controls and things is quick and easy
ways to select units. Now, if you look
at your keyboard and find the backspace
key, if you press the backspace key, it
will select the previous unit. If I
press backspace again, it'll grab my
B-52. Backspace again, it'll grab that
airport. Backspace again, it'll come
down here. Now, what you're probably
observing is I'm mashing the backspace
key. And you're probably also observing
that it completely forgot about my unit
down here. Now, if I press backspace a
bunch of times, you will notice it only
grabs units that are in your view. Now,
right underneath the backspace key is
the pipe uh vertical line, I guess you
can call it. I call it a pipe. So, if
you go ahead and press the pipe key,
which is also the other slash, you'll
notice that it gives you the ability to
select forward. If I press backspace, we
can go backwards, back, forward, back,
forward, back forward, a little to the
left, a little to the right. I think you
have the idea as far as that compon
particular component is concerned. Now,
the one last thing we'll take a look at
with the camera now that you've got an
idea of all these buttons, like I didn't
realize there were buttons that were
always there, is if you select a unit
and you press the T key, it will lock
your view to that specific unit. Now, a
lot of people are like, why would you
ever do any of these things? Like, this
is silly. I don't want to follow the
B-52 all the way to its destination.
Well, sometimes this is kind of handy.
And one of the things I will do is if
I'm like doing some math or something
like that, like calculating a strike
during real time, I'll lock onto a unit
and basically let it just kind of
cruise. Now, here's the important part.
If you press T again, that's going to
break the lock. Likewise, if I press T
and I click on this guy, it's simply
going to lock onto another player. So,
kind of keep that in the back of your
head when you're hitting that button
that you don't kind of get that little
whoopsy daisies kind of a thing like
that. The last thing we're going to take
a look at, and this is, in my opinion,
kind of neat, is um any unit on the
screen. And this is probably a different
video, but I'm going to show it anyway.
It's really cool. If I click a unit and
press Ctrl X, what did that do? You're
going to get an absolute kick out of
this. If I open up Notepad and press
Ctrl +V, it will save the latitude and
longitude of that unit. Now, that's one
of those things that I played Command
for how many years now, and I never knew
that was a thing. But I figured if we're
going to be talking about buttons that I
never remember to use, it'd be helpful
to show this off as well. Enjoy.