# C: MO - If things are going too well, you probably overlooked something
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-lUmJYcm5Q
Video ID: r-lUmJYcm5Q

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be checking about one of my
favorite of Murphy's laws, which is if
everything is going well, you probably
overlook something. Also known as if
everything is going well with your
attack, it probably means you're walking
into an ambush. So, the real goal here
is to identify certain assumptions as we
run through this scenario, which is a
relatively straightforward. So, keep
these things in mind as we play through
here. So unfortunately uh the People's
Republic of New England has decided to
break apart from the Republic of the
Atlantic Ocean and um we're going to
have to destroy the Air Force as a
consequence. Now naturally we have a
pretty good air force base
representation here. This is Westover
Air Reserve Base. It's a pretty good
target here. I switch over to multi-
view. We can see we've got all sorts of
hangers down one side. We've got some
runways. We got some access points. And
of course we're interested in smashing
up the air force today. So we're going
to do it with what we've got. So
swinging down on this side of things. I
got myself a lovely little carrier
battle group here. I've got enough
tomahawks to pretty much end anything I
point at, which is exactly what I intend
to do. And of course, I've got myself a
really good airwing here. I've got E2s,
I've got F-18s, I've got F-35s. I've
even got some mail delivery aircraft in
the form of the Greyhounds here. So,
let's go ahead and get our party started
right away here. So, I'm going to go
ahead and establish myself a really
basic kind of a cap. So, I'm going to go
out about 50 miles. I'm going to go
ahead and press control insert. I'm
going to go ahead and go out another
we'll call it about 25 miles, maybe.
We'll call it we'll do 35 miles. We'll
mix it up a little bit today. And what
we're going to do is we're going to use
this basically as my combat air patrol.
Obviously, you want to put your aircraft
where the threat vector possibly is
going to be. So, I'm just going to run
up here real fast. I'll go ahead and set
that to be a fixed bearing. We got
actually do it
just like that. And now, let's go ahead
and throw some F-35s on that duty cap.
We'll go ahead and set this to patrol.
Leave it as Okay. Oh, let's see here.
Let's grab my F35s. Now, those are not
the kinds I want. Here we go. Air
superiority looks good to me. Cool. So,
we only want two of those going out of
time. It's all we're going to need. I
mean, come on the F35s. Like, what's
going to go wrong? So, that's all set.
We got a little area here. Looks pretty
good. I'm not going to fiddle with this
too too much here. Like I said, it's
going to work fine for what I need it to
do. Let's see here. Patrol looks good.
Enforcing. Well, in case one needs to
reload or something, we'll need them.
The area, of course, is very minimal.
It's basically a straight line, so it's
going to make it simple. And they're
basically going to go around and around,
which is exactly what I want. Here we
go. Chainsaw loop. That's the one I
wanted. Fantastic. I knew it was there.
Okay, so they're going to take off and
they're basically going to go back and
forth, back and forth, and keep a
constant watch in every direction. Good.
So far so good. Let's go run over here
and get our E2 going. Uh, one of the fun
things I always like to do with the E2
is you do a single waypoint instead of a
basically a route with it. Makes it a
little bit easier. Okay, make it a fixed
bearing. We'll go do that to the
carrier. This is where my E2s are going
to hang out here. Uh, E2
E2
Brutus.
All right, we'll go set that to support.
Uh, looks good to me. Press. Let's grab
our two E2s. Slam them down there. We
only need one of them going at a time.
Active emissions only on station. That
makes sense to me. We'll come right up
here. We'll make sure their radar is
turned on. Otherwise, things are going
to go well for us as far as that goes.
All right, cool. Uh, the only other
thing I really need to do, of course, is
basically get a little bit more
intelligence before I start making like
the real decisions of like what I'm
going to launch and stuff like that.
It's very tempting to just start
shooting tomahawks, but we'll see what
happens if we try that. All right, let's
go ahead and give it a few moments here.
Everybody's taking off. There goes my
F-35s. These folks have a fantastic,
and I mean fantastic, sensor suite. And
we're already picking up some nastiness
here. You know, that does not surprise
me. You got to watch out for the
People's Republic of New England here.
Let's see. We have a clam shell radar.
Clam shell always associated with the
basically SA10, SA20 family. So, that's
bad news for us. But again, we've got
F-35, so I got nothing to worry about so
far. Let's go and speed up time here.
See if we can get some better
intelligence. One of the things that's
really cool with an F-35 is once I know
roughly where it is, the radar on this
thing is so sophisticated, I'll be able
to basically see it on the ground. As a
matter of fact, we'll cheat just a
little bit and we'll basically sneak
over here. Got it. So, you'll see here
I've actually identified physically
where this thing is on the ground
because the radar is so precise. Now, if
I can get a precise location on this,
this would be a really good day. Let's
spin around just a little bit here. And
again, my E2 should be taking off any
second now and getting up in the air and
basically starting to look around,
making sure nobody's sneaking up on us
with cruise missiles or something like
that. All right, just give me a little
more intelligence. There it is. Well
done. Excellent. So, I know they've got
at least two sand batteries here. And
that's uh that's okay. We can deal with
that. Actually, I'm going to have them
come kind of more inland here. I know
that I'm a little more curious about to
see if there's anything between us.
Obviously, there's a lot of mountains in
here in the real world, so um it'd be
pretty tough to pick up a specific
individual batteries, but I'm going to
look around anyway. Oh, we got something
else. What's this? Oh, they're just
being sneaky, aren't they? Uh we have an
air traffic control radar. Oh, yeah. Oh,
yeah. Like, that's going to be a threat
to an F-35. I'm not going to worry about
that too much. All right. And okay, so
we know they have an air traffic control
radar. That makes sense. Obviously, they
can't see us and they can't put us tap
us here. And uh seems like nothing else
is between us and the target site. This
is good. This is a good day. This is a
really, really good day. All right, I'm
liking that. So, what we're going to do
now is uh we're going to go ahead and
launch a tomahawk strike. Um because why
not? Why would I waste um put any of my
real aircraft in danger? Plus, the
ranges we've got going on are pretty
long. That's about 275 miles. That's
almost 600 miles round. Oh, hello.
What's this? A jammer. Oh, they're being
sneaky. Yeah, they're trying to jam my
tomahawks or whatever I'm going to
launch at them. It's not going to matter
because there's so many mountains here.
I don't know what a jammer is going to
achieve there. Nice. Okay. Okay. I like
it. I like it. They're being crafty.
They're being crafty, but that's okay.
Not crafty enough. Let's go ahead and do
the shift F1. I'm going to go ahead and
click right here. And uh let's let's put
some holes in things, shall we? All
right. We'll grab the DDG, the tactical
to those are the old school ones. I
rather have the tactical tomahawks. They
have cameras. They're really nice. So,
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
select all of these aircraft uh hangers
here because obviously the aircraft live
in the aircraft hangers. I'm going to
click right here. I'm going to allocate
one each cuz you know why waste
ammunition. So that's 19. You know
there's some ammo bunk. Oh, let's get
the fuel tanks, too. You know, let's be
thorough here. Like why? Spread the love
a bit. Spread the love. All right,
that's going to get me at 25 tomahawks.
I think I still have 32. Jeez. I'm just
going to fire another one at that guy,
too. That's at 26 tomahawks. And you
know what? We're going to blast these
guys, too. We'll That should get us
right for 32. Bam. Look at that. All
right.
All I can visualize is that classic
internet meme with America, but it's
like, you know, the guy like in the
heavy wind with a big huge American
flag. But in this case, all you see is
nighttime and you see a bunch of
tomahawks launching off the deck and
it's like it's just this just routine.
All right, so what we want to do, of
course, is we don't want to be stupid
cuz um in the event that they are a
little more creative than we want, we're
going to go ahead and get some of these
lovely FA I should say E F8, not F18. I
almost messed up. I want the EA18
G's. There we go. And the reason I want
these is because they have jammers. And
what you do is you always chase your
tomahawks or jamming aircraft. So that
way if there is anything that's kind of
low altitude, at least they're not going
to get as much warning about it, which
is awesome. All right, you guys need to
go this way. Go ahead and flip your
jammers on. Jammers on. That way at
least if anybody's going to try to take
a pot shot at our um tomahawks, we
basically have a little bit of jamming
to help out. Now, if I was a smarter
person, I would have launched those guys
before I sent the tomahawks, but oh
well. You're not going to win them all.
Okay. Yes. Unfortunately, yes. For those
of you who know geometry, you're well
aware of the fact my F-18s are not
keeping up with these guys. These guys
are doing 500. We're doing 473. So,
we're going to kick up the speed a
little bit here. And obviously, we're
going to have to lose a little bit of
altitude, too. Now, if I was a little
bit more intelligent, which I'm
definitely not, I probably would have
made these come in all different
directions, like through New York and
stuff like that. But that's okay. Right
now, you can see my F-18s are way too
high to provide any effective jamming
for these tomahawks. So, what I'm
essentially going to have to do here is
I'm going have to make them go even
faster. They essentially have to catch
up to the tomahawks and then they have
to drop down to their altitude. Also, we
have to be really careful cuz those
SA10s or SA20s will make short work of
these planes. All right, we're just
trying to catch up to our tomahawks
here. There we go. Okay, you folks can
slow down. You folks can slow down. All
right, so what I'm going to do now is
I'm going to go ahead and slow down time
before I mess this up and I'm going to
order them to come down to low altitude.
And basically what they're going to do
is chase the tomahawks in at least to
the point where we get past these nasty
sand batteries. And again, that's going
to make it much easier for these guys to
be able to get through because anybody
with this line of sight is going to be
completely blinded by these aircraft
right now. All right, Tomahawks are
through. Oh, this is so good. This is so
good. Oh man, this is like textbook
here. Look at this. Completely out of
range. All right, you folks are going to
have to head back because if you get any
closer to those SA20s or SA10s, it's
going to be a very short battle for us.
Okay, this is the easy part. This is so
good. All right, let's go grab the 3D
view for a second here.
Uh, that is definitely not what I wanted
to see. I wanted to see ripping across
uh Connecticut here. Oh, yeah. There we
go. So, this does not do a good um this
is this part of Connecticut is very
mountainous. Trust me, I would know
because I'm about to fly over my house
here and uh it's got some mountains.
It's got some mountains. Oh boy. Oh boy.
Here we go. This is the fun part.
At the sound of the loud bang. Goodbye
to the enemy air force. Here we go.
That was about a billion dollar strike
right there. And we have evaporated
their air force. All right, let's see
how we did here. Lost. Uh-oh.
Oh no. I didn't kill a single one of
their planes. You mean I just went
through a billion dollars worth of
airplane and I splattered every single
hanger? scientifically and I got some I
even blew up their control tower and
none of their aircraft were destroyed.
Uh-oh. So hopefully at this point uh you
were very very uh sneaky here and you
started to put two and two together and
realize that uh we made a massive
assumption at the beginning of this
scenario. So let's go and reload the
scenario
and uh let's do things slightly
differently this time and see if you can
catch the trick. And again, this is what
I love about stuff like this cuz it it's
it's fun. It's a learning experience for
everybody. So, what I'm going to do is
I'm going to go grab my two F-35s, which
are actually the absolute best platforms
of this entire scenario. It's one of
those things where it's like the little
details, but um we'll go have some fun
here. And now, if you're very, very,
very sneaky, you might have noticed
something, but uh we'll do that as soon
as my F-35s get airborne here. All
right, get onto the carrier deck. Get
yourselves launched. And yes, I know the
um Enterprise is an anacronism, but if
you look at the date, everything is an
anacronism. It's actually a future
anacronism, so I'm not going to worry
about it too much. All right, F-35s,
would you be so kind as to head in that
general direction and use those fabulous
sensors you have on board to just take a
look around and see if there's anything
we may have missed? Again, now this is a
going off of what I like to say
halfcocked. All right, go ahead. Well,
there's the SA10. All right, there's the
other SA10. Looking good so far. Looking
good so far. I mean, we could go sneak
up and we could basically use our cannon
on those things if we wanted to be a
real jerk. All right, we picked up the
enemy radar post. Everything's going
pretty scientifically here. I'm going to
go ahead and speed up a little bit here.
Let's see. These are F22s. This would be
even better because I could have super
cruised. All right, let's keep flying
here. Let's keep flying. Oh, we're being
jammed. Okay, why would they be jamming
us? They were jamming our tomahawks,
right? Uh, they weren't jamming our
tomahawks. Do you see it?
They were jamming our radars so their
aircraft could leave.
This is a classic classic scenario of
the missed assumption here. So we see
here that our F-35s which are actually
like I said one of the best platforms
for this perfect actually were able to
identify the fact that the reason we
didn't destroy any airplanes is because
there were no airplanes to destroy. Now
this gets even better and I think this
will put a smile on your face obviously.
But if I fly a little bit further out,
uh, you'll probably notice the fact
there's something going on, and you'll
pick it up pretty quick here. Let me go
ahead and reduce my speed to automatic
here. There are two other airfields that
we had no concept of. Now, I know a few
of you are basically screaming at the
screen saying, "Whoa, you can't pull
that. That's not fair. There's no way
for the player to have known their other
airfields." I mean, let's be honest
here. Obviously, in the real world, we
would had satellite photos. Well, if you
notice the weather, it's actually really
bad weather. Uh we have moderate clouds
right now and it would have been very
very challenging for us to actually
successfully engage these targets. The
other thing you probably noticed is I
was very reliant on my E2 to do the
radar work when I had the best radar
platform at my disposal instantly ready
to go at a moment's notice. Now the cool
thing here of course is you noticed that
um there was nothing else going on down
here. The reason there was the jammer
was to make it so we couldn't see that
they were leaving with their airplanes
using conventional radar signals. The
only way we would have picked it up is
if we got close enough. It wasn't for
the tomahawks at all. Now, you're
sitting here going, "Okay, that was kind
of cool. I like what you did there." Or
maybe you're screaming and you're
unsubscribing. That's kind of fun, too,
because obviously this is arbitrary. But
the incredible thing is these kinds of
things happened in history so many
times. It's embarrassing. One of the
things I've learned from Max Hastings
Bomber Command was the whole concept
that you fight the war the way you can
fight it. You know, if you have to fight
it by not being there, that's how you
fight it kind of a thing. Now, it's a
little unsatisfying to think that we
took all this effort to not blow those
guys up. So, um, let's go blow them up.
All right, we're going to go ahead and
quite hilariously, we don't want any of
those. So, we'll grab all these hangers,
all this tarmac space. This is
Burlington, Vermont. Obviously, hangers
are always going to be prioritized over
anything else. And we're going to grab
as much of that as we can. And let's see
here. Oh, that is a lot of tarmac space.
Well, that's about as much as I'm going
to get. All right, so let's grab this
one. allocate one each. Now, quite
hilariously, that means that my Tomahawk
cruise missiles are going to arrive as
they land. So, quite hilariously, this
is an almost more fun ending to this
because all those poor guys are like,
"Ah, we're safe." Boom. So, it's
actually kind of fun how that ends.
Boop. All right, there we go. So, I'm
going to go ahead and close that and
I'll go and unpause here. Now, like I
said, very interestingly, these lovely
airplanes are going to be landing. Uh,
unfortunately, remember SA10s from
earlier? They're going to ruin my fun
cuz the SA10s will get start shooting
down the tomahawks. Oh, we did. Okay,
watch this. Watch this. Watch this. So
now, because we took a couple extra
minutes to uh make sure that the target
that we're engaging was the target we
were engaging. Oh, look at that. Oh,
look at that. All right, let's see if we
did a little bit better the second time
here. All right, losses and
expenditures. We got zero. So, even
though we were so sneaky and so clever,
we never actually hit anything, you
know. Let's go switch to the other side
again real quick. And this is what I
love about this stuff is um if I come
down here and actually take a look, uh
you'll observe that we obliterated all
the buildings on that side. But we
completely missed one hanger. We
completely missed that other hanger. So
unfortunately the shell game they played
with us with hangers worked perfectly
and we didn't get a single one of the
hangers that actually had something that
we could blow up. Now we come down here
for a second. It's the exact same thing.
We blasted all these hangers here. We
blasted all this tarmac space here. But
incredibly, we didn't actually hit
anything because they split their entire
air force into two pieces, making it
even less likely for us to actually
score a direct hit. Kind of fun, right?
Kind of fun. Enjoy.