# C: MO - Using Nuclear Weapons Effectively against Airfields
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Si71JPkREWk
Video ID: Si71JPkREWk

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at an
interesting article that I was reading
involving using nuclear weapons to
neutralize runways. So, I said, well,
this could be kind of a fun little
scenario. Well, how we going to do this?
Um, obviously they we recommended using
basically nuclear rockets. And I said,
well, that's kind of fun, but I've been
on a cold war kick lately. So, I'm like,
we got to use a proper airplane for
this. So, we're going to use a B-58.
Now, the interesting thing here is our
target today is, of course, going to be
Homestead Air Base. Now, when I was
first playing with this scenario, I made
a bunch of mistakes as far as the best
way to sort of approach it. As we can
see here, if I were to flip this on real
fast, oh gosh, that's useless. The cool
thing you can see here is there's a
bunch of ammo bunkers down here. You've
got the runway, and you've got a ton of
tarmac space. Now, your brain, of
course, as a nuclear planner,
immediately goes, "Well, obviously you
want to drop a bomb right on this guy
here because that's going to do the most
amount of damage because basically air
burst it right over the center of the
base, not only to get the runway, but to
get all the support equipment, stuff
like that."
Now, the interesting thing here is if
you were to order up a direct mission on
this, you would actually discover that
your bombers would love to bomb these
ammo bunkers. Now, one of the things I
discovered when I was testing this
scenario is the fact if I hold my mouse
down here, you're going to notice that
this is some crop lands and things like
that. I hold my mouse here, all of a
sudden it says we have a builtup land 30
ft and of course it's urban. And if you
come over here, it goes back to crop
lands and shrublands again. That's an
interesting problem for us. And I'm
going to demonstrate that in just a few
moments here. So, let's go ahead and get
our little situation all set up. We're
going to do a custom flight plan for
this one to make it a little bit easier.
I've already set up the refueling track
right here in the middle to basically
get us some gas. We're going to be using
the B-58 today, which is not exactly
known for its mileage. It's actually a
really unique plane, not going to lie.
All right, so let's demonstrate the
wrong way to do this first, and then I
will go back and correct it. So, what
I'm going to do is I'm going to
accidentally target this bunker right
here. I'm going to call this one oopsies
because it'll demonstrate my point
perfectly. I'm going to press a land
strike there. I'm going to grab myself
the B-58 Hustler. Do not add it to your
mission. Now, the reason I don't want to
do that is because if I do that, it's
going to try to do four of these things.
I only want one of these for this
purpose. So, that's looking pretty
groovy. Uh, looks at one target. I
obviously want to return back to base
after I've dropped it. You could add
some extra secondary targets. I kind of
like the way that they used to do this.
Uh, this is just changed a little bit,
but again, it's perfectly fine. All
right, B58 Hustler. That's good to go.
And that's basically all I need to do.
Like I said, I've already got the
support track ready to rock there.
Couple KC135s to give me some gas. And
again, we're going to do it the wrong
way the first time, then we'll go back
and fix it. All right, let me zoom out a
little bit. One thing I like about
command min operations is you get double
peppers and you could see that it was
about that long it took to uh get our
guys going here. Let's see here. This is
a Howdy number one. What an awesome name
for that. All right, here he is. This is
Luca. Whoa. And we've dropped our bomb
so fast you couldn't even see it happen.
So, I'm going to come down here and I
want you all to sit here and go, are you
kidding me? Uh you look at the damage
here and now you realize that um not
much. Not much at all. As a matter of
fact, if I open up the screen here,
you'll see he didn't even drop his
weapon. So, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to grab this guy. Hey, Luca one,
get your butt back here. You forgot the
most important thing, which is deploying
the weapon that you're supposed to drop.
Sometimes when you use very, very, very,
very high time accelerations, you get
that exact problem. All right, so we're
going to intentionally drop the B-53
here. This is a 9 megat ton. And we'll
drop uh you get a bomb. And you over
here, you know, you might as well get a
bomb, too. You know what? You look like
you need a bomb, too. And uh that should
do it right there. Fantastic. All right,
let's line ourselves up here since he
wasn't listening the first time. That's
okay, though. All right, here he goes.
Oh my gosh, look at the altitude
difference here. Of course, if this were
B58 properly, we would basically come
around here. Uh, you need to come to
your right a little bit. Ah, that's
better. Drop you down a little bit
altitude. There he
goes. Go, go, go, go, go, go home. Go,
go, go, go, go. After burner, go away.
Go away. Another reason, of course, I
make that comment here is um what was
that? Let's see here. That's uh 13 megat
tons worth of explosives that I'm
dropping on poor Homestead Air Force
Base here. And it should make my point
pretty clear when this goes off.
Obviously, I don't want to see her all
afternoon waiting for the incredible You
might put your goggles on, by the way,
if you don't have your goggles on
already. There we go. Goggles are on.
And
whoa. That's one way to make an
impression on the ground. So, the theory
here is that a couple nuclear bombs
should basically be able to nullify the
effectiveness of an airport here. And oh
my goodness. Whoa. Okay. Like I said,
hopefully you're not on a mobile device
right now because you actually will need
goggles. Okay, there it is. Look at how
little damage that did. Do you see? As
you can see very clearly here, that that
builtup area basically sucked all the
energy out of 13 megat tons worth of
explosives. And you can see, as a matter
of fact, this is what'll make me cry the
most when I saw this the first time I
tested it. You'll see I did some damage.
Like I did not do damage here, but he
didn't even get everybody. Like there's
still quite a few working airplanes
here. So unfortunately, this chap's
going to have to go get some gas here.
Um he's basically alternating between
the two different speeds. That's okay.
You can go ahead and go back to
automatic. I know I know you really want
to do it on your own. What I really
should do is send this guy back to
repair get some fuel on the way back.
Uh, go ahead and get yourself some gas.
And now he's going to go run and get
some gas on his ride home. He actually
doesn't have enough range to get there.
So, one of the things you can do is you
can grab this guy and basically order
him to fly there. They are smart enough
to know that they're supposed to meet up
with each other. And it's just one more
of those little command modern
operations features that like you don't
realize how critical it can be. I hate
micromanaging as everybody's well well
aware. But you can see we can pull
things like this off if you're very very
careful with it. All right, you my
friend. I'm gonna go ahead and unassign
you. I'm going to right click on you.
I'm gonna immediately order you to
refuel. I'm gonna can even click that
and I can even click on him like that.
And what he'll do, of course, is he'll
go get some gas. He's unassigned. And of
course, he's going to go run over there.
Go get some gas. Get some gas, Luca.
One, don't waste time. But you have the
right idea. So, let's go ahead and
recreate our mission here. I'm go and
open everything up. And uh somebody
asked me once, so why do I name things
the exact same thing? And why don't I
like save them separately? Um you don't
want to know how many scenarios I would
have in this game. All right, let's do
this correctly this time. So, my
refueling track's already ready to go,
and we're going to go ahead and drop the
bomb, so to speak. And I'm only going to
need one this time. All right, so what
I'm going to do is intentionally drop
the bomb in the center of the airport
where we have the advantage of not
hitting this builtup elevation stuff
down here. So, again, I'm press F11. Uh,
this time, definitely. That sounds like
a pretty nice name for mission to me. Go
ahead and press okay. We're going to go
ahead and do everything we did before.
I'm going to do a slightly different
mission profile this time just to
demonstrate what the B-58 is really
capable of. All right, let's see here.
It looks good to me. Uh, we got
ourselves a single target. Sounds good.
Mcon. We're allowed to use nukes. Nice.
But one thing I do want to do is weapon
relief authorization. I guess I have to
add the unit first. My apologies. Hey,
there we go. Is this is going to be
awful, but I'm actually going to use all
weapons. I don't know about you, but
that seems a little rude. But you know
what? We're here to demonstrate things.
So, uh, let's go ahead and do this. So,
we're going to intentionally drop our
entire rack of nuclear weapons this
time. And like I said, I hate nuclear
weapons. I think they're awful. Part of
me should be like, "Oh, Fallout, yay!"
or something like that. But like, I'm
just I'm not like that at all. Let's see
here. Use all weapons against target.
That sounds pretty good to me. Let's go
ahead and open up the B-53. There's only
one of these, so like it doesn't matter
what I target. It's going to do its
thing no matter what. All right, that
looks pretty good to me. That looks
pretty good to me. Pretty good. Pretty
good. Pretty good. Pretty good. Let's
create or update flight plans. Nice. So,
let me go and zoom out and take a look
at this lovely flight plan. I'll drag
that off the screen so you all can't see
it. But there's our flight
plan. Let me zoom out a little bit more
here. What I really want him to do is
get some gas on the way over. So, we got
a position three here. So, one of the
things I'll do, I'll pull this down so
you can see this. I'm going to hit the
flight plan editor real quick. I'm going
to go ahead and grab this thing. Uh,
let's see here. We have uh what I say
waypoint three. Between three and four
is where the party's got a hat. All
right, between three. I'm simply going
to come down here and insert waypoint.
It's like, are you sure you want to do
this? Oh, yeah, I am. Why would I not
want to do this? And then we have new
waypoint 4. Wow, do I have enough
windows going on at one time? This is
why I like having two screens for this
game. Let's see here. Where is waypoint
4? So, there's wayoint 3. Waypoint 4,
where are you? There's way five. All
right. A dollar a dollar to the person
who can see way point4 because heck if I
can find it right now. If this ever
happens to you, by the way, uh let's see
here. Way point4 must be turning point.
No, we'll go back and fix it so that it
actually so it doesn't bother me. Uh D.
That's fine for me. Let's see here. Way
point to must be ingress. Um I believe
way point four must be turning point. In
ingress or turning point egress. Uh the
flight plan has no targets. A weapon
targets waypoint.
Um
huh. Yeah. It's work in progress as they
say. All right. F2. Let's go find where
that waypoint 4 is. Let's see here. Way
point 4. I still can't see this thing. I
mean, like I said, I must be completely
bl I know the way to find it. There it
is.
I knew if I did something cheeky like
that, I'd find it. There it goes.
Waypoint 4. Okay, so we're going to
change this waypoint. I'm going to go
back to the flight plan editor, and I'm
going to tell this waypoint to be a
refueling waypoint. It's going to get
mad at me. It's going to say, uh, that's
perfectly fine. Press okay. And the
reason I want to make this a refueling
waypoint is I really want to get some
gas before I do my stupidity at the end.
So, I'm actually going to take that
refueling waypoint. I'm going to put it
just shy this key right here. So, these
basically going to switch to refuel
mode, grab the fuel that he needs, and
kind of come on back. The other thing I
would like to do is I got my kind of
like last leg, a little operation here.
Let's go ahead and tweak that a little
bit. Let's find where it is. Obviously,
we want to speed up a little bit and I'm
going to take advantage of the
directionality of the runway here. I'm
actually going to flip this around like
this and we'll do a couple things on
wayoint 6 here. So, we'll go ahead and
open up our flight plan editor again.
Come down to wayoint 6. That's my IP.
We're going to kick a speed up quite a
bit here. Let's see. Adjust speed. It
looks good to me. That looks good to me.
Tanker air refueling looks good. You can
see that his target is already selected.
Uh, like I said, I want to go a little
bit faster. So, I'm going to edit speed
or altitude here. I'm going to go ahead
and drop down a little bit to 25,000 ft.
And I'm going to kick on my
afterburners. And now, the reason I'm
going to do this, of course, is I want
to be a little bit faster. So, coming
across my target here, I'm going to make
sure that's perfectly the way I want it
to be at its speed altitude. I'm also
going to kick on my afterburners there.
Again, I'll keep about 25,000 ft for
better accuracy. Turning point egress,
of course, so we can drop down any speed
we want, but that should be perfectly
acceptable for the purposes of our
mission. All right, let's see what we
did here. All right, so we take off. We
get some gas, drop a couple nukes, and
uh come on back. That's all there is to
it. Sounds good to me. Go ahead and
close that sucker. Go ahead and
unpause. I will try a little bit harder
this time, not too fast forward past the
fun part. What I find interesting is our
B-58 is basically flying formation with
our KC135 right here. All right, let's
see if he refills correctly. Where is my
buddy here? Luca 1. Hey, Luca 1. How you
doing today? Uh, you forgot to do
something, my
friend. Did you remember to get some
gas? I bet you didn't remember to get
some gas. Go get some gas. All right. Or
or just ignore me. I get it. I get it.
This guy is apparently not reading his
flight plans carefully, but that happens
sometimes. That's okay, though. That's
not the purpose of this video. It's all
about dropping the bomb. All right. Here
we go. So, we're coming into this egress
point. So, what he's going to do is drop
down to 25,000 ft. He's also going to
kick up to afterburner to give him a
little bit more room to operate. Now, if
you remember, we're intentionally
dropping this weapon in the center of
the airport. We're not just going to
willy-nilly drop on the ammo bunker like
an idiot. All right, let's see what
happens here. We are perfectly lined up
with the runway here. Oh, taking a rip
across here. I like this. Looking good.
Looking good. Remember, we're dropping
all four of our B43s here. So, even if
it refuses to drop the big one, the
little ones will do the job here. And
here we go. Over the
top. Did you see it? There they are.
Now, remember, these are the little
firecrackers. These are not the big
firecrackers. And one of the cool
things, if you go like this, you can
actually see little lines coming back
down to the ground. Um, you might want
to put your goggles back on. I'm sorry
if you took them off from earlier, but
um it'll prove my point really quickly
here. All right, gonna stay
Whoa. Wow. Oh my goodness. That That's
blinding. Remember, school children used
to go and watch these things test. Whoa.
Sorry, Florida. Remember, this is just a
game. This is just a game. All right, so
let's take a look here. So, as you can
see, as the uh basically the shock wave
clears, we've completely annihilated
that airport. If I were to actually come
in here real quick to my losses and
expenditures, uh you'll see here that we
got everybody. Every single airplane,
every single hanger, every single
tarmac, every single everything that we
could, and it only cost us four megat
tons of explosives. It really didn't
take that much of it. We could have used
significantly less for this purpose, but
as you can see, it didn't matter in the
end anyway. So, he's going to go ahead
and head home now. He's got to kick up
to 25,000 ft, though, cuz he's not going
to get very far otherwise. Yeah, he's
probably going to run out of gas. You
know what you should have done is you
should have got gas when I told you to
get gas. I feel like this is a
conversation many families have had
before. I know that there is a bug
there. It's a known issue there. So, it
did not surprise me. It did not work.
All right, come on back, Luca. You had
fun.
Fantastic. So, let's go ahead and take a
look at the damage from the other side
real quickly here. We'll switch to the
team red. We'll zoom in a little bit.
Press the nine key. And one of the
things you find so fascinating here is
this particular basically this hanger
was spared. Everything else got
destroyed around it. And another thing
that's really cool is if you actually
come in here, you can see a very long
message log of just how tremendous the
damage on this thing was. And one of the
things I find so interesting is if you
kind of scroll down, oh no, we lost our
command center. But the cool thing is if
you actually come down here to the
bottom where it says B43, you can
actually hit that and it will show you
basically where it hit. In this case,
you can see it impacted. It did not air
burst. An air burst weapon would have
had a slightly different personality to
the actual damage caused. Enjoy.