# C: MO - Beta 1.08 Comms Jamming and Drone Autonomy
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tKndAfw6m34
Video ID: tKndAfw6m34

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at some of the
new features brought to us in Command
Modern Operations version 108 beta. Now,
I will say right away that this is
definitely a beta version. You know,
there's some little bugs kind of here
and there. So, for those of you who are
doing an ongoing playthrough or
something like that, I'd recommend
staying on the regular public build,
waiting until some of the kinks are kind
of ironed out, especially like saving
and things like that. So, our little
scenario today is relatively
straightforward. Uh what we have here is
we have a couple drones. And now one of
the big things that they've added is not
only have they made it so that drones
have different levels of autonomy, but
they've also added communications
jamming. Now, communications jamming has
been one of those things that we've
actually had for a really long time in
the professional edition. And I can
safely say that communications jamming
creates some really interesting
scenarios and there's a lot to it. And I
will definitely do a more detailed video
on communications jamming once the beta
kind of evolves just a little bit more
because I don't want to go too crazy on
that stuff, especially if things are
going to change later. So, we have here
is a pretty straightforward scenario. We
have a ship we're trying to find. I'm
pretty sure it's right there. There it
is. And of course, what we have is a
couple drones. Uh, one of our drones
here is an MQ1C and the other one, of
course, is an MQ9A. Now, this sucker
right here is an interesting aircraft
because when I open up its little
display, you're going to see here that
its autonomy level is self-reovering,
which means if it can't talk to the home
base, it's going to attempt to return to
home base. It's going to create a really
big problem. You'll see. This one over
here, on the other hand, is the MQ9
Reaper. This is a little bit bigger, a
little more modern, and you're going to
see it is fault adapt event adaptive.
That means not only can it work in areas
where it cannot talk to home base, but
it's smart enough to kind of fulfill the
mission. There's actually a lot of
different modes of this autonomy level
and there's a really really good article
that's kind of kicking around if you're
absolutely interested in kind of taking
a look at this. You can find it
basically right here. And the cool thing
with of course all of these things that
you see here is that they're going to
have interesting little gameplay
elements. And now for those of you who
play different scenarios, you're going
to get a kick out of this. So what I'm
going to do is I have my two little
reapers here. And of course, if I recall
correctly, uh yes, we have ourselves a
little ship which we have to acquire.
Let me borrow my tupalift real quick
here. Hey, flip your radar on, will you,
buddy? We're trying to find the
ship. Hey, we got it. Fantastic. All
right, so we have our ship. And of
course, I'm going to take my drones. I'm
going go press F1. Go ahead and click on
this one. Uh-oh. Bugs. And it looks like
we recover from that pretty easily. All
right, we're going to go ahead and
select that other one, too. That's
called a fail safe. I did say this was a
beta. I did say this was a beta. So,
we've ordered these two guys to go ahead
now check out this little target here.
And now, they're going to start speeding
up a little bit, and they're going to be
engaged offensive in just a moment and
start making their way towards our
little target here. Meanwhile, Tupelift
142 is got to keep an eye on things.
Meanwhile, let's go swing to the other
side real quick. Now, I'm going to pause
my game for a second and bring up the
scenario features and settings. One of
the things you're going to notice is
there are a lot of new ones now,
including these drone autonomy levels,
including ASCM terrain falling
restrictions. I'm going leave that here
because this is going to be funny in a
minute. And the other thing you'll
notice too is we have just
communications jamming now as an option.
If you don't hit that, you don't get the
fun part that's going to happen in a
second. So, I'm going to go over to my
lovely, lovely ship here. I'm going to
go to my sensors real quick, and I'm
going to turn on my communications
jammer. Now, the communications jammer
on this thing is a very modern one. It
is very, very, very, very, very
sophisticated. Now, one thing I want to
say immediately is as soon as the
communications jammer flips on, you'll
probably observe the fact that the
little word jammed is going to appear
next to each one of these. I'm kind of
visualizing space balls with jammed.
Uh-oh. And you can see my two drones
have dropped off the network because
there's no way to communicate with them.
Now, you're sitting here going, "What if
you have satellite communications? I
thought these guys had satellite
communications. You can't jam them line
of sight." The answer is that's correct.
What I had actually done is I'd gone
into here and I'd actually removed the
satellite communications from these two
units. Uh the reason I did that, of
course, is that completely denies them
the ability to talk back to us. So,
right now, we are completely hopeless.
We are on our own. These drones are just
doing whatever the heck they're going to
do. So, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to spin my OSA around real quickly
here. I'm actually going to get a more
powerful radar on the OSA. The reason I
want to do this is just so we can keep
an eye on the goofiness that's going on
in this guy above us here. Uh, let's
see. We need We need a TPY. We'll
probably do a two. Uh, TP3, TP1, or
maybe SPY1. That's what I wanted. There
we go. We'll do a 1D here. And the
reason I'm picking this radar is I just
want to be able to see my own aircraft I
can no longer identify. Now, one of the
things you'll probably notice now that
the comm's jammer is kicked on is my
little tupalive up here. I actually know
where this thing is pretty accurately.
Now, the reason I do is because I'm
detecting it with my own radar. If I
didn't have that ability, it would work.
Another thing you'll probably notice is
there's no line of sight between the
enemy vessel and where my handydandy OS
is. You'll also notice we don't know
where the enemy vessel is anymore cuz
her tupalive basically doesn't have the
ability to communicate back to him.
Start to see how it gets a little
complicated. So, the other thing I'm
going to do too, while we're kind of
going along here, is I'll go and get my
guy moving a little bit quicker here.
Come on, get moving. We've got work to
do. These things are really fast, by the
way. Is to see what happens next. So,
I'm going to speed up time a little bit
here. And obviously, I can only see so
far in the sky. We have a pretty good
sight on where our friend, the tupalive
is, just because it shows up on radar
really easily. But our two drones are
completely completely off the network.
We have no idea where these drones are.
They're not talking to me. They're not
telling me what's going on. Nothing's
going on. So, what I'm going to do is
I'm actually going to come over here.
I'm going to add myself another radar.
All right. Now, the reason I'm doing
this is just to show you how frustrating
this uh communications jamming will make
your life here. Let's see. This would be
dramatic. Uh let's see. Air traffic
control radar. It sounds pretty good to
me. And the reason I'm adding this is
just to give us an idea of anybody comes
into view here. All right, let's go
ahead and speed up time here. We'll go
ahead and add a minute here and see what
happens. Oh, actually, we'll pause
first. Speed it up to one flame. And
then we I must have pressed F1 while I
was doing things here. 1 minutes. Okay,
so we passed by one minute. So, we still
have a pretty good idea where all those
guys are. We have no idea. Oh, we have a
little bit of knowledge about this
drone. Oh, we know they're still on the
way. We still have no idea where that
other one is. We can see it continues to
proceed on its mission. Notice it's
disregarding the fact that it has no
idea where the enemy is. It's just
trying to complete its mission. This one
on the flip side is returning to base.
All right, let's go ahead and take a
look here. I'll go and speed up time
again. Another minute and chunk. And we
can tell this guy's basically making his
way over there trying to do what he can.
He's going to try to identify and find
that target on his own. And again, he's
smart enough to do that. But what you'll
observe is he flew right over the target
because he had no knowledge of where the
target is. So now he's going to come
spinning around. I'll go slow down time
a little bit here. And again, this is
all real time. Not real time. It's a
slightly exaggerated time. I think
they've changed spacebar. Let's see
here. It's coming around just like that.
All right. I have lost the ability to
proceed in time. That's an interesting
new problem to have. Ah, I fixed it.
Good. All right. There it is. We have an
unknown identified something's unknown.
This is not unknown. This is actually a
missile that was launched at this
particular target right here. So, he's
going to come flying down here. Go ahead
and press controlV. And you can see our
little drone. It's not a missile. It's
our drone trying to find that target on
the ground, which it has no knowledge of
any longer. And you can see just how
challenging this is as far as making
these things a little bit more
complicated for any type of scenario
that you're actually running at any
given
time. There we go. Now everything's
moving smoothly. There we go. I can
speed time up. So, that poor drone.
Remember, I'm on show everything mode.
So, if I press Ctrl +V, we don't even
know that this is one of our drones as a
result of all these consequences that's
kind of stacking up together here.
That's getting messy. So, now let's go
ahead and go back to the team for a
second here. And you can already see by
the remember that drone earlier I was
talking about. He turned around, he flew
all the way home. He's actually going to
come home, land, and go, "What?" and
then be confused as to why he didn't
return back to the mission. Isn't that
crazy how that works? So, let's go
switch to the other team again for a
second here, and I'll demonstrate some
shenanigans. I'm going to go to sensors
real quick and I'm going to shut the
communication jammer off. Now, there's a
big reason why I chose to do that. Let's
go swing back to the other team here. Go
ahead and fast forward a little bit of
time here. I don't need you to be in
auto pause mode. You can just do it on
your own and we'll keep skipping around
with auto pause mode. Those of you
getting ready for real time kind of
stuff, uh you're going to have to get
used to it. So, I'm going to go ahead
and RTB that particular unit. And he's
just going to kind of head bow. Oh, he
took a shot. He took a shot. You can go
home. Like I said, you can return to
base. So, I'm actually going to unassign
you real quickly and head you back home.
Now, you know, my OSA right here is
getting awfully close to being in range
here. You know what I should do? I
should use one of those missiles on the
side of this thing against that boat. I
mean, we've done a lot of damage to it.
Let's finish the job, right? So, I'm
going to press shift F1. I'm going to
click on the boats. And what you will
notice here is we cannot fire our
missile. This is another new feature
that they've added to this one. And it's
the fact that the older cruise missiles
only float one altitude. And
unfortunately, there's mountains between
us and the target that will cause it to
slam into it. Now, quite hilariously, if
I press control F1 for a manual shot,
and I say, "No, no, no. Just just just
fire. It'll be fine." Kind of a thing
like that. And of course, I add order
the thing to fire. You can see the
missile kind of comes flying out there.
Comes flying out there. Oh, we got lucky
that time. Oh, actually, it's just kind
of overshot and basically cruised over.
Our mountains weren't tall enough.
Normally, what would happen, of course,
is we'd smack into one of these targets
and not be able to affect the target on
the other side at all. So, let's go
ahead and flip them over to the other
side here. Grab ourselves another lock.
And you'll notice we actually can safely
take our shot here. So, we'll go ahead
and take our shot. There goes the round.
It went. What was that? Did that thing
just go swimming? Yes, it just went
swimming. Oh man, these old missiles are
hard to use. Let's try this one. There
it goes. Oh, and that one also went
swimming. Sigh. And it just gives you an
idea of some of the complications that's
going. Let's see. 48 from feet from
intended point. No units affected by
explosion. Oh well, it turns out we ran
out of weapons. But one of the things
you'll probably also know is since we're
no longer jamming. Remember a while ago
this guy was returning back to base,
he's no longer being jammed, which now
means he's allowed to continue his
mission. As a matter of fact, you will
see here that he continues his mission
exactly as it was previously. This
creates an interesting little problem.
By the way, go ahead and skip it away.
There we go. There comes the missiles.
Bang. Bang. And the mission is
accomplished. I can order that one to
return home. There are a lot of other
features in this new version of command
modded operations and I'm still kind of
playing with them and getting the hang
of it. Some of the stuff we have seen
over in the PE version before, but the
key thing is once you start fiddling
with that comm's jamming, once you start
figling with those little drones, things
are going to change quite a bit for
Modern Warfare. Enjoy.