# C: MO - Using Decoys in Missions
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=trL6M6PdnMM
Video ID: trL6M6PdnMM

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be showing you why decoys are
tricky to employ, as well as showing you
some features from a scenario side
perspective of how you can make them
kind of work in a given situation. So,
let's go ahead and take a look at what
we've got here. We got ourselves the
Enterprise. Uh, for some reason, it is
off the coast of Connecticut. I don't
know where Connecticut keeps getting all
these, you know, Soviet era weapons. I
think they just picked them up for a
really, really good deal at an auction
somewhere. And, you know, they've got to
use them if they got them. I'm just
saying. I guess technically what we
could have done is like fill them up
with like Nike Ajaxes or something like
that, but I don't know. This works fine.
But anyway, enough of that. So, what
we're going to do is we're going to try
to strike this airfield. And we're going
to try doing it the silly way. And then
we're going to show you how drones can
kind of make things a little bit easier.
Then, of course, we're going to show you
how decoys can be used as well. So,
without getting too technical here, I'm
just going to come up here. I'll say
attack this. We'll go ahead and do a
land strike here. Again, not doing
anything different, nothing unique here.
Of course, we're a size of three. We'll
go ahead and do our flight size there.
Again, nothing unique. Please remove
these runways. They're going to give you
issues otherwise. All right, so we've
got F-14DS. They're carrying the towel.
Uh, this is a neat little weapon if you
haven't seen this thing before.
Basically, what it is is it's a flying
decoy, and it kind of just sort of
chills. And what makes it a little
drone-like is the fact that it'll
actually do power donuts once it gets to
its destination. Just to confuse things
even more. Now, the interesting thing is
you'll see this doesn't work well. We
have F-18C's. These are going to be our
strikers. They've got Mark 83s. And of
course the E here are going to be
carrying an awful lot of these SAS. I
think each one gets four harms each,
which is a lot. So I'm going to go ahead
and grab all this and toss this in here.
We're going to mark these two crews as
our escorts. That's good to go. Now what
I'm going to do is I'm going to head
over to my for my escort. And I'm going
to tell them not to waste harms on
everything. We're only going to do two
allowed per shot. Now the interesting
thing here is like I said, wait till you
see the fireworks in a couple minutes.
So, it'll put a smile on your face here.
All right, that's all set to go. That's
all set to go. That's all set to go. And
that is all set to go. All right, let's
demonstrate how silly this is going to
be. So, I'm going to go ahead and
unpause here. And obviously, we could go
around the big wall of missile silos,
but uh that would just be too easy for
us. We can't do that. And I love the
fact that everybody's doing their
circles and wait for it. Anytime, folks.
You don't have to sit there. Again, it's
an aircraft carrier. You can only launch
so many airplanes at a time. And this is
basically what it's like 70 planes I'm
launching or something awful like that.
All right, folks. Anytime you're ready
to head towards the target region,
there's a bar lock. There they go.
Finally. I don't know why that bar lock
is happily tripping at me. I swear I
shut this off every single time. Uh,
we'll do that one. There we go.
Nice. All right. So, right now, our
basically on the other side is to you
have to identify something before you're
allowed to take some shots at it. So,
we're going to cruise along here and uh
what you're going to observe is the fact
that we're going to basically get right
up and knock before the party starts.
Now, the reason the party's not going to
start is on account of the fact Oh. Oh,
they're getting close. Keep in mind, it
is 5:15 in the morning. Oop, somebody
had to go back for gas, it looks like.
Ah, of course, it's the F-14s.
Ironically, they're the ones carrying
the drones, or I should say, uh, decoys.
Now, one of the things you'll find very
fascinating here is we actually launched
the decoys. I didn't do any manual
attacks or anything like that. They just
decided to start flipping them out there
just like that. And it's one of those
cool features that saves us having to
press Ctrl+ F1 like 30 times here. So,
I'm going to go and speed up time a
little bit. Uh-oh, here comes the
missiles and the party has started. Now,
what you'll observe here, as soon as the
crews down here identified this one
group, probably F-18s if I had to guess.
Yeah, F18C's. Soon as they were
identified as hostile, the party
started. Now, here's the cool thing. If
I switch over to red real
fast, I don't know why this resets every
single time, but it's like, let me shut
that off so you can actually see what's
going on here. So, we have a wall of
yellow here, meaning it hasn't been
identified, which means don't shoot at
it until you identify it, which also,
interestingly enough, means, as you're
probably watching the party kind of
unfold here, that we're not shooting at
any of those decoys. It's basically
hanging out up here, as if nothing's
going on. Now, if I speed up time a
little bit, uh, you'll see kind of the
initial harms are going to find their
marks here. We also notice that there's
several other radar sites that we didn't
identify when we did our initial pass
here. And uh that's going to make things
much much worse for us because now
unfortunately we're going to be shot at
by things we didn't know were there. So
they never emitted. We didn't pick them
up on radar. And again, you can see
everybody's basically getting position.
Look at the wall. Oh, a couple of the
square pairs. We're taking a pot shot.
Oh, look at this. There's another one we
just detected. Yeah. The reason I put
all those SAM eights basically around
there is to make it a little bit harder
to get cheap shots with harms. Harms are
fantastic weapons, but if you want to
stop them from cheapshotting enemy
silos, you have to put something that
has some anti-missile capability nearby.
Otherwise, it's just not going to work.
All right, party's continuing here.
Looks like one of the F-18 groups did
get through. We've got three of them
basically hanging out. Two little
teammates. And of course, the SAM teams
are doing a beautiful job. You can see
the decoys are doing exactly what the
decoys were designed to do. And there's
going to be an awful lot of fireworks at
that airport in a second. Oh boy, here
comes the fireworks. Couple more. It
looks like we got that Sam 8. Also,
here's another few more here. And that
looks pretty good to me. Oh wow, the
fireworks are beginning. Wow, look at
that. Look at that. Look at that. Look
at that. Man, that Sam just does not
want to go down. And of course, our
decoys are happily doing power donuts
basically right over the heads of the
Sams, distracting them as everybody
basically pulls out right now. And one
of the things I did do, and I learned
this from fiddling with this earlier, is
I do have these guys. These are the
Stingray UAVs. They actually can do air
refueling, which I don't know, there's
something kind of neat about that if you
ask me. I just I never think of using
drones for that purpose, but hey,
whatever. And meanwhile, of course,
there's an inaglia down here, right at
the little carrier trying to land. If
you want to see something sort of
amusing, let me switch on 3D view real
quickly here. This is just so absurd.
Look at this. Look at this. Oh boy. Let
me click on this guy real quick. There
we go. All right. Who's up
next? Imagine that chaos going on above
your heads there. So anyway, let's see
how we did. So if I go to our losses and
expenditures real fast, I will see that
uh we got a couple we got a bunch of
SAMs. Got a few of the airplanes though,
so it's kind of a bust. They didn't fire
very much at us, which is good signs.
And we lost one F-18, which not great.
Not great. So, let's go ahead and reset
that. So, what happened here, and I
think like you can probably get it now,
is because the W on this side was
basically saying only shoot at stuff
that is known hostile. All of those
decoys we fired were essentially wasted,
and very few of them were ever engaged,
if at all. Which means essentially the
whole purpose of the decoys was
completely thrown away because all they
did is confuse the player. They didn't
do anything to the Sams on the ground.
So, let's make a little adjustment here.
So, I'm going to jump back to this team
real fast and I'm going to press control
shift F9. And what I'm going to do is
I'm going to say they can shoot at
anything that's in the air. Now, of
course, this is a very very permissive
technique as far as doctrine goes. But
it'll demonstrate my purpose pretty
pretty effectively as far as how to
tweak these things goes. So, strike two,
I'll go ahead and call it like that.
Land strike. Go ahead and grab all of
Oh, almost did it. Almost did it. uh
three and size three should be perfectly
fine for us from a logistical
perspective. One, two, three down here.
Nice. Your mark selected as escorts.
Your mark selected as escorts. And the
one thing I want to do just like we did
last time is we're going to pop off the
two runways. Go to uh let's see here. We
need
escort. And we only want to fire two.
Obviously, more than that is just
wasteful. Okay, now things are going to
be slightly different. Now, you get a
kick out of this. Remember, the only
thing we changed was to tell the other
guys that they can yolo at anything in
the air. Now, you're probably noticing
my Awax right here and saying, "How come
he's not getting shot at?" Cuz believe
it or not, he's out of range. I actually
check very carefully check the range
before I embarrassed myself here. Keep
in mind, in the real world, they might
take the pot shot anyway, just to scare
the crap out of the Awax crew. And it's
not going to stop them from basically
There it goes. Here comes the SAM fives.
Ah, SAM fives, man. You got to respect
the S200M. It's It's an impressive SAM
system. despite its age. And I've always
been I I just think it's cool. There's
even a nuclear variation of it. And it
also uses basically this phase. And of
course, unfortunately, this guy's going
to be breaking at the last second. Go,
go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Turn. No,
no, no, no, no, no, no,
no. And the entire mission has failed
already as uh we basically got shot down
before we even got close. And notice
there's another wave of these SA5s
coming at us. Oh boy, here we go again.
Everybody prepare to duck. Now, believe
it or not, uh these folks are doing I
don't know. I wouldn't climb against an
SA5. I'd probably try to get under its
radar. These are active or radar homing
depending what model of the missile it
is. But you can see basically the SAM 5
wins the battle here today. We're not
even getting close. Look at this. Here
comes another one. Whoa. Run away. Run
away. We are getting hammered here. And
that is another loss of aircraft there.
Now we're starting to launch some of our
decoys. Finally. Oh, we finally got
ourselves in a range here. Now, this is
where it gets kind of fun because what
you're going to see is 100 SAM twos,
basically S75s, are going to start
spamming these decoys because from their
perspective, let me go switch the other
team. Everything's hostile. And again,
you can see it completely disregarded my
setting there. And they're just going to
start into the sky right now. Again,
technical term. Meanwhile, my escorts
are doing exactly what they should be
doing, which is firing their harms at
the now radiating missile silos or
muscle sights, which makes this much,
much easier to do. So now everything's
actually working the way it's supposed
to work. Here comes a bunch more of
these decoys again. That's going to be
basically a cheap shot. Bam. Look at
that. Out of the
fight. And we can see even the SAM 5 is
getting in on it. Check it out. He's
taking pot shots at that group there.
Meanwhile, the rest of the crews are
getting into position here. Of course,
we've lost about half of everything that
we started this battle with. So things
aren't going so well for us here. And we
can see, look at that. They're just
wasting their time. Like at any point
they could probably do a strafing run on
that site. Assuming they're probably
doing mad reloads right now. All right,
here they go again. They're just taking
all those pot shots. Oh, that one's
definitely hostile, folks. That SAM is
definitely not on your side. If it's
shooting up at you, I don't trust it.
But again, if you take a look, our
decoys actually did an okay job here. So
now our F-18s are getting into position.
They're spamming that poor air base
again. You can see almost every single
bomb hit this time. So then they're
going to turn around and they're going
to start heading home. And you can see I
lost almost every single one of those
poor decoys that I launched. And this
poor guy, he just just wants to go home.
let him go home. And then he gets home.
Now, the interesting thing here is if
you take a look at a loss in
expenditures again, you can see we did
okay. We got a couple of these, we got a
couple of these, but in general, we
basically failed the mission. Now, if I
scroll down here, they fired just about
everything at us. And we lost 12
FA18C Hornets. Uh, that is an
embarrassing loss. And it's awful.
That's like more than half a squadron
worth. And that gives you an idea of how
big of a failure that was. And that
shows you how those kinds of things
don't work that way. And hopefully
you're starting to kind of see where
we're going with this. So, let's go
ahead and think about this from a
scenario designer's perspective. That
would have been very unsatisfying.
Obviously, I could have manually
launched every single one of those
decoys. It wouldn't have mattered unless
everything was very permissive. So, one
of the things you can do as a scenario
designer to kind of preclude this and
actually make them work the way they
were intended cuz that didn't work.
Obviously, we'd have to go around. You
know how these things go. Also, we could
launch the decoys at low altitude, too,
so we don't get pot shots by the S200.
That's part of the fun. So what we're
going to do here is instead we're just
going to define a zone and we're going
to make that zone the fire ref fire
zone. And the reason this works best. Uh
we're going to say fire fry. Go ahead
and call it that. The reason this works
really really well for these scenarios
is it basically allows the other team
kind of like a little bit of a respit at
the same time as providing users with a
little bit more uh not a chance but like
you know what I mean? So what we're
going to do is we're going to define
this zone real quickly here as an
exclusion zone. So, I'm going to go
ahead and create it. Exclusion zones are
basically a way that you can declare
something that happens here. Um, shoot
anything here. Mark violators as
hostile. Now, this is a great solution
to this problem. I'm going to go
validate. I don't think I made a
mistake, but um, we're going to go
anything that crosses this magical line
now basically gets to get shot at. So,
I'll go ahead and make that a little
more dramatic. And might as well include
Nucket Martha's Vineyard there. All
right, I'm going to save this. Don't
forget to hit save. So, the way this
works now is if anything crosses this
line, it starts the party. Now, that is
so much better for us because that's
going to give us the ability to
basically get all of our decoys off
before anything goes downhill. You'll
see what I mean. All right, let's do it.
So, we're going to do the same thing we
did last time. Uh, let's see. Shoot this
third time. Third time is the charm. Go
ahead and I'll lock everything up here.
We're going to grab everybody like we
did last time. These two folks are going
to be escorts. We're going to double
check to make sure we've done our sizes
correctly. Sizes are correct. Sizes are
correct. We don't want to shoot at
these. It would be a waste of your time.
Uh, the other thing I would save your
time, too, is I get all these things out
of here. For some reason, they love
shooting at stuff like that. I I It's
just a waste. Don't even bother. All
right, we're going to make sure we only
fire two of these this time. Now, this
is going to be so cool this time. Uh, do
not use weapons against surface
contacts. Well, that would be pretty
amusing if they did, but one of the
things you can do here is if you kind of
rip through this real quick, you've got
your radars, you got runways, all sorts
of good stuff here. One of the things I
appreciate is the fact that it
highlights things in green to tell you
that this is the thing that you're
looking for. All right, that all looks
good. That all looks good. That all
looks good. That all looks good. That
looks delightful. Now, watch what
happens. So, right now, as it stands,
what's going to happen is our aircraft
are not going to be engaged until it is
essentially too late. And it creates a
really neat little situation. And you'll
see exactly what I mean when the party
starts here. All right, here they go.
Everybody's coming. And obviously, we're
not doing manual control here. Now, let
me go swing to the other team real
fast. Now,
what stop it? So, what you can see here
is everybody's marked basically as an
unknown at this point. And until they
cross this magical line, none of the
fireworks are going to start. And when
it does start, it is going to be the
spamiest thing you've ever seen in your
life. So, let's use up front here. These
are our these are why are they so far
ahead, folks? When you do stuff like
that, you tend to be the first ones to
get shot at.
Case in point, as you can see, they have
crossed the magic line of doom. Let's go
ahead and swing to the other seam here.
And you can see as soon as they cross
that, they started getting engaged. And
each time the new one marks over, you
can see the next one gets engaged as
well. Whoa, I hope I didn't just lose
another one. There we go. Nice. This is
where things get really goofy, by the
way. So, they're crossing into the
marked this hostile zone. Marked his
hostile. Really, the SAM 5 wins his
battle, by the way. He's doing a
delightful job here. And you can see
everybody's basically lighting up all of
their radars, which is exactly what they
want them to do because the moment they
turn their radars on, everybody with a
harm is now going to start to fire the
harm from the safety of the altitude
that they were. Now, believe it or not,
the enemy now is shooting at our decoys.
They're not shooting at our actual
aircraft. And now our harm teams, as you
can see, are starting to do a beautiful
job of basically lobbing these harms
right into the danger zone, which they
are no longer exposed to because, of
course, all these missiles are doing
their thing. You can see this other
cruise launch there. You can see the
next set of decoys are going out. You
can even see that the SAM 5 is getting
in on taking pot shots at those decoys.
Actually, this whole zone is dangerous.
So, he's firing at these, actually
wasting his ammunition. Meanwhile, as
you can see, my escorts are just going
hard as far as these lovely SAMs go. The
anti-raar missiles should be more
technical here. But look at this.
They're going right for that one. Oh,
and he turned his radar on and got
splattered for it. We can see my SAM 5
here. He's about to get Ouch. Ouch.
Ouch. The SAM 5 is no longer in the
battle now. And it's just a party at
this particular point. Everybody's
firing their decoys. Uh the missiles are
going all over the place and everything
is looking incredible. Look at this guy.
Even this guy's got to get hit. Look at
that. Done. Thank you for playing. All
right. Meanwhile, our F-18C's here. Oh,
we lost one of them. That was going to
happen because of um Mr. Sam 5 there. We
should have come in at a much lower
altitude during my initial. You will see
quite the spike of lag in a few seconds
here. Expecting to get the little
warning that says your frame rate is
low, but it's going to happen when it's
going to happen. Look at this. Look at
this. There's another one. Bam. Sorry,
buddy. You should see what the new harms
can do. Look at this. Look at this.
B. Look at this party. They're all just
doing power donuts and firing arms at
them. I mean, it's fantastic. Of course,
the F-18C's are just turning around.
They're coming home. They're probably
going to stop and get some gas from the
drone here. Keep it nice and simple. And
it is just like a party time up there.
Of course, the SAM 5 is like, "Okay, why
you all picking on me?" I'll tell you
why we're picking on you, cuz you're
dangerous. All right, let's keep on
heading out. Uh, for those of you who
have never seen this before, there's a
program called Sam Simulator. Go look it
up and give it a try sometime. It'll
completely change your perspective on a
lot of these things. All right,
everybody's heading home. A few people
are probably going to stop for some gas
on the ride in. I would assume they
would be stopping for gas, but again,
they've done a nice job here. And of
course, our last decoys are running out
of gas. Okay, now this is where it gets
kind of fun. Losses and expenditures.
Let's see what happened here. So, we got
three of those, eight of those, and
three of those. Oh, we got lots of their
SAM twos. We also got a B. We did
really, really well here. This was
almost half of the total enemy assets
here. They fired plenty of missiles at
us and we lost a single F-18C. Now, the
part that you're probably going to be
most impressed with is this F-18C was
actually lost to the SA5 at the
beginning of the fight. Isn't that crazy
how effective that works? So, again,
what we did there was we basically
tweaked the so there was a no zone and
that made it a little bit more fun for
the player to be able to kind of crack
that puzzle. And now, if we just made
them fire at anything, you could see how
chaotic that was. And of course, if
you're a mission designer, you could do
things like that. But the only reason
you would is if you had some kind of
civilian units or something like that.
Good stuff. Enjoy.