# C: MO - R-27 Missile Overview and Tactics
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U_eBSdZMR6U
Video ID: U_eBSdZMR6U

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at the R27
series of missiles. Now, it might seem
like kind of a niche topic, but as
you're probably well aware, this has
been something that has come up a little
bit lately because of a certain DCS
launch. And, you know, I'll be honest,
it's just kind of an interesting weapon
and it kind of almost bucks the trend of
some other Eastern/Russian/s
Soviet weapons of the era. So, let's uh
go ahead and get started here. So, we
have ourselves, of course, the Sukoy 27
here. I'll go ahead and pause. I keep
getting all these lovely contacts here.
And I've modified this one quite a bit.
Uh you can see here that it has the
AA10, which again the R27 to me, the
AA10, A10, A10, A10, A10. And you'll
notice there's five different variations
of this weapon. Now, this weapon is kind
of an interesting weapon. And when you
first take a look at it and kind of get
a little hint is the 470-1,
you'll probably say this thing looks a
little weird. It looks kind of like it's
got an oversized head, these big control
fins, and then if you look a little more
closely, you'll probably start to
recognize the fact that this is actually
designed to be a modular weapon. Yes, a
modular weapon. And now, the reason I
say that's kind of fun is because a lot
of Soviet designs were always really,
really, really good at that one thing
that they did. And sometimes you had
alternate versions. Let me give you a
case in point. Name the American
torpedo. You're sitting there going,
"Um,
the Mark 48." correct. Name other
American torpedoes. And you start to go,
"Oh, now meanwhile, I say, name a
Soviet/ Eastern torpedo." And all of a
sudden, you panic a little bit when you
realize it's like 30 different kinds.
That's just because philosophically over
on the eastern side of things. So,
whenever you had engineers, they tended
to get really, really, really, really,
really, really, really good at that
thing, and they kept getting promoted
for that one thing they were really good
at. Whereas, western designs tended to
be more generic. So, basically simplify
logistics. That all aside, this weapon
basically consists of one body, which is
a very, very, very large warhead for its
size. And again, if I come down here
real quick, you'll see that it is a 39
kg warhead. That's a gigantic warhead.
And the reason I love that is because
there's like nothing like it. Uh, let me
show you what I mean here. Let's grab an
AM7M here, which is a classic. Again,
when people look at this weapon, they
say, "Aha, there's the R27." It's not
the same thing. Trust me, and you'll see
why in a minute. But if I go down here,
you'll notice it's a 16 kg warhead.
You're like, "Oh, what about the AM120?"
The A120, you say? Well, the A120,
believe it or not, is also a tiny
warhead. And if I scroll down here,
you'll see that this one is a 7.7 kg
warhead. These are tiny, tiny little
warheads compared to our R27. Now, the
cool thing here is the R27's main
warhead is basically stored kind of in
the middle there. And meanwhile, the end
and the front are interchangeable. We
can pop the front out and put on a radar
seeker. We can pop the front out and put
on an infrared seeker. And there's one
really, really fun one, which is, get
this. This is an anti-raar seeker.
However, it's an air-to-air anti-raar
seeker. We'll show you that in a minute.
Of course, the other thing you could do
is you could pop the butt off of this
thing. You can throw on what they call
the extended range module. You can see
how much bigger the booster is on this
one. Or you can leave it as kind of the
short one. Unfortunately, let me get you
a picture of the short one. You can see
the difference in size immediately. So,
what does this mean for us? Uh, this
means a lot actually. Uh, this means
that we have a wide variety of different
kind of combos in order to be effective
in combat. Now, the R model and the T
model, kind of the OG sort of short
range sort of thing like that, is pretty
short range. It's um, if I go up to the
tippy top here, it says up to 32
nautical miles. Now, you're sitting
there going, what is 32 mi nautical
miles really look like? Well, if you
take a look at my Sukoy 27P here, if I
hold my mouse about here, that's the
range. And you're sitting there going,
okay, so that's that's not awful. That's
That's like a Sparrow. It is like a
Sparrow. But the big difference here,
and this is one of the fun things that
makes it a little different than the
Sparrow, is when they were launched,
they were typically launched with a
thermal version as well as a radar
guided version. The concept is if you
could get one to work, uh, then you
wouldn't have to worry so much about the
other. You'll see what I mean. So, we
have two targets coming at us. We have
one that's a little difficult to
identify. We have one that's very easy
to identify. It's got a fire control
radar, air-to-air, medium range.
Obviously, this is a fighter size
target. something over here. Clearly a
bomber sized target. And again, we know
that just from what distance we picked
it up and we're actually detecting its
radar right now. Now, we've closed
distance of about 30 miles. So, this is
the absolute max range of our good
friends, the R27, the standard versions,
the standard range model, not the E
models I would call it. Now, let's go
ahead and kind of show you a typical
engagement with this particular weapon.
Now, we're a little too far to be able
to hit this one. This one's just going
to maneuver. We're never never never
going to hit it. So, I'm going to get a
little bit closer here. Get a little bit
closer. That's about 21. Pause. Now,
watch one of the fun tricks people
didn't realize. I'm going to press shift
F1. Hold down shift. Drag a box around
these two. And I'm going to go ahead and
fire these. So, the first one I am I'm
going to go ahead and fire one R and one
T to the bogey number one. And I'm going
to fire one R and one T for bomber
number one. Now, this is one of the fun
things you might not have known about
Sequo 27 is they have TWWS. Not only do
they have TWWs, but if you look here,
you'll actually see that I can fire off
four missiles. Each one of these
missiles, of course, packs both two
different kinds of warheads here. One's
the thermal and one is the radar. Now,
let me zoom in a little bit and show you
something weird going on here. You will
notice my thermal missile has no lock
right now. It is actually flying
completely dumb. It's actually flying in
a straight line. And what happens here
is as our target turns and lights up,
you will see that the thermal model of
our weapon here, the R27T, will actually
see the flight the trail of this
actually start chasing after it. This is
a completely dumb missile otherwise. And
it's kind of interesting. Now, you'll
notice our radar models, they don't
care. Now, if you actually look
carefully here, you'll see that our T-
model Oh, that one hit and it blasted
that B-52 out of the air. Meanwhile,
this guy on the run here is running
really, really, really, really fast. So,
if we're going to do anything here, we
have to actually catch up to him.
Now, you're probably sitting there
going, "Okay, that that's kind of neat.
Uh, what what else can you tell me?" Uh,
what else I can tell you? I can tell you
a lot. Uh, namely, for example, this
thing is very dangerous. So, I'm
actually going to grab this guy in order
him to turn because we have something
very, very dangerous that can make our
day here. And that happens to be a
Phantom. Now, the Phantom, of course,
packs its own radar missile, and this is
the affforementioned Sparrow, which
actually has a pretty good range on it.
But because we also have the ER version,
we can basically engage this phantom
with impunity. The trick here is
whenever you're dealing with the
air-to-air weapons that are not going to
be the active radar version like AM54s
or AM Rams, the trick here is to
basically get the other guy to turn
around because if you can get the other
guy to turn around, especially if you
get them to turn around after they've
already fired, you win the engagement
because they're going to basically put
their tail to you and you get a free
shot on them as you'll see. Now, the
problem is we have to know the range of
this particular aircraft's weaponry. So,
if I actually were to click on my
Phantom here, you will see I'm
completely within range of my Sparrow
here. It's got about a 38 mile range.
So, if I wait to 20 miles, we're
basically both going to get a free shot
on each other. So, it actually creates
kind of an interesting little um I I
don't want to call it like a standoff,
but you'll kind of see what I mean. So,
what I'm going to do is hold off just a
few more seconds here. One, two, three,
four. And I'm going to go ahead and fire
one of these long range versions. I'm
not going to fire the ET version. I'm
going to fire the ER version. Now,
here's a fun fact. You see the P version
here? This will actually home in on the
radar emissions of the Phantom. The
problem is the Phantom is going to get a
shot off, and that's going to put us in
a really bad spot. But if we wanted to
be kind of have some fun with him, we
could actually fire this weapon off. he
would keep following us to guide his
sparrow in and he'd get hit in the face
with it. At least we hope. But then, of
course, we're giving us our tail and the
the other way around. So, what I'm going
to do is I'm going to go ahead and fire
one ER model at him. Like I said, if we
wanted to be a little cheeky, we could
use that strategy of basically firing
it. So, what you'll notice here is he
has already fired on us. So, I waited a
little too long, but that's okay. So,
I'm going to go ahead and get the heck
out of here.
And remember, he fired an ER at us. If
he fires an ER at us, oh, see how he's
turning? See how he's turning? So, this
fight is over for him. Do you notice?
Um, as soon as we launched on him, he
basically uh panicked and went around.
You can start evading anytime you like
here. Anytime. There it goes. Do you see
how as soon as we fired on him, he
retreated. So, what we're going to do
now is kick this thing up to afterburner
and we're just going to basically track
him straight down. So, that actually
worked exactly as I intended for it to
work. Now, the scary thing here is this
ER version probably not going to catch
up to the Phantom in time. Whenever you
do any tail chase with any weapon, it
has a tough time. You can actually see
that Alamo, my anti-RAR missile version.
It's just sort of putts along there. So,
what we're going to do now is we're
going to go ahead and get a little bit
closer cuz again, we have a tail chase
here. Right there. And this will be a
perfect opportunity to fire one of the
ET models. The ET is not
extraterrestrial. It is a thermal
launched weapon. Now, the scary thing is
this weapon right now actually has a
really, really good motor on it because
it's so much bigger as I showed you in
the picture there. So, this thing has
already stepped itself up to about Mach
4, and our poor Phantom actually doesn't
know we've launched on him. So, what
happens a lot of times here is they will
actually turn on you, not realizing that
they're being hunted down. But, it's not
going to happen. Yep. He's He saw it. He
saw the weapon. But again, all we're
trying to do right now is close up on
him and try to get him to turn. Come on,
you're going to turn. See how he's just
running, running, running, running.
Right. There it is. There's the turn.
So, we're going to come this way and
we're just going to get ready to fire
another ET on him. Remember the ETs, of
course, we're running halfway down enemy
territory here. And right there, that's
going to be the shot. See, now he's got
us nice and square. Let's go ahead and
fire that ET. We could even fire an ER
if we were being nervous here. Off it
goes. And again, notice the ET, it has
to go behind the target before it goes.
Notice the ER has no challenge. And also
notice our Phantom because he can't turn
point at us long enough to get a shot is
basically uh right in our kill zone
here. And again, I don't think this is
going to go so well for the Phantom
here. Hey, surprise. Oh, got him. Nice.
All right, let's go and reload their
scenario here. And now you can kind of
see tactically why it is an incredibly
good weapon because it has that longer
reach. You can get the other guy to turn
and basically get that cheap shot. But
one of the things I want to share with
you real quick, cuz I just get a kick
out of this, is that version I was
mentioning a minute ago, the R27P.
That's the E model. Basically, this is
the one that homes in on radar
transmissions. It's a really funny
weapon to shoot because if they don't
know they've been launched on and they
leave their radar on, it basically will
get them shot right in the face. It's
kind of fun. Now, this is not a
anti-raar missile in the sense that if
you probably noticed down here, there's
a boat looking up at us. You can't fire
this weapon at a surface target. It just
does not work that way. Uh that's just
kind of one of the fun little kind of
catches. But anything else is totally
acceptable. So again, we have these two
targets. He has a surface search radar.
This is an F-16 drone. I don't feel bad
about shooting the drones up. That's
just a drone. But if I were to take my
um regular P model here, lock onto this
fellow here. Again, we can technically
fire either of these. If I fire this
one, he's a little out of reach to hit
the F-16. And uh this is going to be
kind of fun to watch cuz if you notice,
the F16 turds immediately. This weapon
is homing in on the radar missions of
the bomber. Oh, it's not going to go
well. As you can see, it didn't go so
well. And I had a feeling it wasn't
going to go so well. Bam. Now we got
him. So now, of course, we can turn our
F-16 and we can go ahead and we're
actually close enough to fire the R and
we'll hit him with an R and a T just in
case. There we go. One of those and one
of those. F16 is not going to have a lot
of time to react here. There it goes.
There's the turn. You're up too high
though. He's up too high. Notice the T
model again is doing that inefficient
chase. And we got a turn. Of course, we
still have the phantom we have to deal
with and we're already launched on. So
the best thing we can do is immediately
fire one of our own.
which we've done. And all he has to do
is knows he's been fired on. Watch how
tight this is going to be. Watch this.
Watch this. See how the missile overshot
us.
Oh. Oh. Oh.
And as you can see, you got to make sure
you pay attention in combat, otherwise
that kind of thing will happen. We were
too close. We needed to take advantage
of that extra five mile range there to
be able to get that cheap shot as you
saw in that previous scenario. Now, if
we open the scenario one more time,
we'll show you kind of the other thing
that could happen. So, let's go ahead
and speed up time. And again, air to air
combat is actually quite boring once you
get to modern weapons, cuz like this
fight's over as soon as somebody
launches with modern weapons. But for
now, it's pretty traditional. I'm going
ignore those two planes for a second
here. I just want that one. That's the
one I want.
All right. So, we're going to do the
same thing we did before, but we're
going to take advantage of that really
long reach we have here. Notice I can
fire this thing at any time.
The probability of that weapon actually
hitting that target is so low, but he
doesn't necessarily know I fired on him.
So, wow. A little bit of an overachiever
here. There he goes. He turned after
burner.
Notice I didn't tell him to do anything.
He just slapped all those other aircraft
down. So, our F4, believe it or not,
knows there's a missile behind him, but
the only reason he knows there's a
missile behind him is cuz there's
actually a radar site on the ground
tracking me right now. If that wasn't
there, he would not have known there's
basically this insanely long range shot
taken on him. Nope, you're fine. Keep
going. Keep going. Keep the afterburner
going. By the way, do not climb with
this aircraft. Um, if I try to climb up
to 45,000, the altitude difference
between myself and the target that I'm
basically running down right now would
be too low. Now, there's one thing I am
curious about, a little bonus, I guess
I'm going to call it. I'll shut the
radar off for a second here. Do you
notice that I can still see this target?
No problem. The reason I can still see
the target and you see I'm starting to
lose him
is because I'm using my thermal sight.
Oh. Oh. Oh. No. No. No. No. No. If
you're going to get this guy, you're
going to have to get a lot closer and
you're going to have to stop wasting
them. Oh boy. This is going to end up
being a gun kill here.
There goes the next one. I really
appreciate it if you don't keep firing
those, but you know what? You do you.
just like that. So, as you can see, the
R27's kind of a unique weapon. There's a
lot of different platforms that can
carry it. Uh, it's widely exported. The
short-range versions are actually still
pretty useful, and the longrange
versions really, really, really give you
a lot of tactical flexibility if you
don't mind flying uh was that 90 miles
across Sri Lanka for the purposes of
chasing the target down. Enjoy.