# C: MO - Nautical Wave Attack Versus a Modern US Destroyer
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uas6i8Eq45g
Video ID: Uas6i8Eq45g

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be answering an interesting
question one of my buddies posed me.
They basically said, "What's the point
of having expensive destroyers and
cruisers and frigots and battle cruisers
and battleships uh when they're just
giant Lego bricks?" No, that wasn't the
question. The question instead was
dealing with the concept of swarm
attacks and how effective they can be.
So, um I'm like, uh I don't think
they're going to be terribly effective,
but it's I've got this thing called
command modern operations, so it might
be worth taking a shot at it. So, what
we have today is pretty straightforward
scenario. As you can see, we're in the
Caribbean. Got to watch out for the
pirates of the said Caribbean. And uh
we're just cruising around. Uh this is
the DDG81. This is an Arber 2A. These
are great, great, great, great vessels.
And he's currently operating MCON.
That's to say, he's sitting there just
looking out the window. He's not running
any radars or anything like that to give
them away. And of course, we picked up a
hostile radar right away. And now we're
a little suspicious about it, but we're
not at war at the moment, so we can hold
off. So what we're going to do, of
course, is we're going to speed up time,
as I've foolishly done many times in the
past. Incredibly, we actually have a
good idea of where this thing is on the
ground. That gives you an idea of how
sophisticated the ESM and visual sensors
on this craft are. Keep in mind, this is
basically dawn. This is like 5:11 in the
morning kind of a thing. So, we're doing
our thing. Just kind of cruising along.
Nothing seems to be Oh, we've detected a
bogey. Actually, this would be a skunk
because of the surface. And we can
identify it right away. This is a Vasper
Mark 5. He seems to be on a closing
course with us. It's a little
suspicious. I don't know what the deal
with that is. I'm going to go start
arming up all my weapons and everything
like that and probably calling general
quarters at this particular point. We
don't know what the deal with this is
quite yet, but he seems to be
approaching relatively quickly. I still
a little suspicious. Still a little
suspicious. A little suspicious. He's
seems to be um Uhoh. What the heck is
going on here? Red alert. Red alert.
We've got problems. We got multiple
hostiles inbound. And of course, we just
have one hostile. What caused us to
declare war on the other team here? Uh
probably getting too close. That'll
definitely get you alarm here. Uh-oh.
Uh-oh. Uh-oh. That's not good. Um, well,
we've got problems. We've got problems.
That's a lot of enemy boats coming at us
at the same time. And what I want to do
is I want to end this one right away.
So, we'll start firing some things into
that right away. And, uh, you'll notice
I've got a lot of really, really fun
weapons, and I'm not allowed to use them
against surface targets. So, I'm going
to press control shift F9, and I'm going
to say, uh, dude, bro, I want to use
them anytime I want. So, I'm going to go
ahead and enable them. This means I can
use my really, really expensive missiles
against $2,000 speedboats. So, this
should be a very, very symmetrical
warfare. Now, uh, let's see here. I'm
going to order up the attack anyway.
That's going to get those going right
away. And, uh, we'll go ahead and
unpause. We're going to have to get
radars going right away cuz chances are
things are going to get messy before
they get un messy. Let's get some ESM
going as well. And we have incoming.
Oh boy. Oh boy. Oh boy. Don't Oh. Oh,
looks like there's some anti-hip
missiles been launched at us. This is
bad. It looks like a combination attack.
These vessels, by the way, are making
some pretty good time here. I really
should not have enabled them. basically
maneuvering, but you can see that
they're basically turning. They should
have kept formation and kept going. So,
uh, shame on me for that one. But, we've
already got some incoming anti-hship
missiles and um, we've done everything
correct so far. We have turned into them
and we're basically popping away with
our 76 mm. And oh, that one was got us
that time. Oh boy, here comes another
one. Here comes another one. Oh, just a
little shy. Oh, that was a hit. Okay, we
are a quarter of the way through the
durability of this vessel. And the fight
has just gotten started here. So, um,
things are going to get interesting, I'm
sure. I would certainly Oh, look at
that. We've lost the entire radar in
that particular quadrant there. So, he's
having to kind of like pan around in
order to like keep the radar pointing in
the correct direction. Interesting. So,
this is getting problematic for us. Uh
we're basically plinking away here. And
let's not be stupid. Let's go ahead and
put them on our beam. Let's also kick up
the flank speed. And let's make it
inconvenient for them to continue this
engagement here. There we go. That's
much better. Now, we can get our radar
back in line. That also means our SeaWiz
is now Oh. Oh, that's another one. Now,
we're at a quarter of our health. Uh oh.
Oh, here comes another one.
Ouch. Oh. Ah. We're getting creamed
here. This is not good. Ow. That's
another one. Oh, we're at 40%. Oh, we
got another one coming in right now.
This looks like another anti-hship
missile. Oh, that one looks like it just
sort of phased out and burnt out there,
but we got it. Uh-oh. Uh-oh. We got
nothing on that side of the ship left.
Oh.
And uh, amazingly, the attack worked.
Now, very, very sharpeyed individuals
will say, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
You cheated, buddy. You didn't have your
radars going. You didn't do anti-surface
missile things earlier. All that. That
wasn't fair. That wasn't fair. Fine.
Okay. Well, we we'll go ahead and assume
that that was not the best maneuvering.
But again, for demonstration purposes,
it's important that you kind of realize
that they're not nearly as safe as you
think they are. But let's be fair. Let's
be fair. Let's go ahead and pop on our
sensors here. We're going to start right
away. We're going to do OECM
immediately. We're also going to switch
to our massive, very, very, very, very,
very long range surface radar. And
again, depending on when that first hit
came, it would have had a big impact on
us, of course, as far as our durability,
but it's okay. We're going to we're
going to do it again. We're going to do
it again. I'll try to straight myself up
on the straight a little bit here. So,
we're just going to zip along and zip
along. Oh, we've got incoming once
again. But keep in mind, our radar has
got this guy here. So, we have a pretty
good idea. And he's definitely on an
approach course. So, um let's be a
little more aggressive. We're gonna mark
him as unfriendly because obviously he
seems to be a closing course and I don't
have any visitors expected this
afternoon. Oh, there seems to be a whole
group of them. So, we'll go ahead.
Can't. No choice here. Uh, let's see.
Did we already go to hostile? Yeah, we
didn't go to hostile already. We can't
mark them all at once. Shame. Oh,
there's quite a few of them coming.
Actually,
H. There we go. Now we can mark them all
as unfriendly. Now, that does a really
awesome thing for us because that means
that I can start getting ready to use my
weapons against them before the party
starts or if they start partying, then I
can start hitting them immediately.
So, um, let's see what happens. This
might be a little different this time.
So, again, no war was declared. No war
was declared. Oh my goodness, there's a
lot of those. Yeah, I had to actually
count up how many they'd had and like
kind of prepare like all the different
units and stuff for it. It was actually
kind of neat research on my part. And
the party started. These guys
immediately are now considered hostile.
You have just declared war. This is um
basically what do you want to call it? A
jet ski regime change. Regime change by
jet ski. All right, this is going to be
a little different this time because
we're allowed to use our missiles more
aggressively. That means uh that we're
going to be have a lot more time to
basically respond because the computer
will have pre-calculated all the
approaches here. So, as you can see, we
are firing um each one of those is 2
million bucks by the way. So, if you've
been keeping track so far, it should be
putting a smile on your faces to the
amount of money that just cost me.
[laughter] Oh my goodness. Oh boy. Whoa.
That wasn't cheap. Meanwhile, the leader
of the pack here is getting plked at
with the 76 mil. And you can see we did
quite a bit of damage to him, but we
didn't actually sink them. And now
again, we're going to start firing right
up at that. Oh, they're coming back into
us again. Oh boy. We're going to fire
right in the middle. And again, we can't
use our SAMs aggressively here, which is
really a shame because if we could, that
would really, really change this. I can
go like this and go like this. And uh
where's the one I want? This one right
there. Each one of you just do one and
I'll just go to unpause. Like this is
such a waste of missile, but like I
don't care. Watch this.
Isn't that so silly? But again, um we're
just blinking away here and getting a
little close. Um, if I was a little bit
smarter, what I would do, of course, is
I'd try to put some angles on them like
this. And I'd kick up the flank speed
kind of a thing. We're already at flank
speed. So, basically, I try to make it a
little less convenient for them. And I'm
going to go ahead and order an attack
here. And like I said, all these things,
we're already we can't do anything until
we're in a position where we can
actually utilize them. So, all our cheap
stuff basically we used up right away.
So, this is kind of a problem. So,
anyway, we're going to turn, we're going
to run, and we're just going to do one
of these. And uhoh. Uhoh. Oh no, we ran
out of short stuff. Boom. Boom. Oh, we
felt that one. Oh boy.
Look at this. Look at this.
Oh boy. I think we're winning here. And
um
it Yeah, this is uh this is basically
victory. Uh USA or something like that.
I don't know why they stopped. Oh, it's
because that guy was still sinking.
Well, that was fun. And um I don't think
we got hit that time. Again, we had that
early warning which made a huge
difference for us. So, let's take a
look. Um, they were not a lot. Not a
lot. Let me get my calculator here. Look
at this. I actually pushed the button
correctly. Uh, let's see here. 19 + 19 +
8 + 8 plus uh I don't know. 4 * 1 23 1 2
3. That was a $116 million engagement on
the United States part there. Not very
efficient. So, let's go ahead and uh
load everything back up again here. And
we're going to another little
change. All right, things are looking
good. Now, one of the nice things about
US destroyers and many many many many
countries forgets and destroyers is the
fact they carry helicopters. And
helicopters actually kind of are
neutralizing factor here. Let me show
you why. So, um, we don't have an Awax
F-35. Although, if we did, this would be
a very, very short scenario in the
enemy's part cuz we'd know they're
coming even though there's a water
clutter and all that other kind of
stuff. But, uh, the reality is I have
helicopters and helicopters are
fantastic. So, let's go ahead and grab
Evil Twin here. Go ahead and flip on his
radar so that way we don't give away the
position of the vessel. Oh, look at
that. We spotted them early this time.
We should go take a look and understand
what that is. Let's go ahead and grab uh
the other one. That's evil twin there.
We need to wait for twin to come out.
Twin, come on out. Twin. There he is.
Let's grab a twin here. Whoops. As I
grab the destroyer. Hey, twin. Get out
there. Now, if I was a very, very evil
person, what we'd actually do is we'd
grab a twin here. We'd basically do one
of these. So that way we're got a nice
broadside while this guy basically
distracts them. So anyway, off they go.
There goes my helicopters. Helicopter.
Helicopter. Off they go. All right. So
we have good intelligence of the
enemies, everything. Uh we know where
they are. We know how many they are. We
have a pretty good idea of what team
they're on. Everything's been sorted
out. We probably can identify individual
ships at this point, which is actually
really wild because if I were to do one
of these things real quick, I could see
the fact that the lead vessel here is a
Vosper Mark 5. And these are all
basically speed bumps with um speed
bumps. That's one way to think about it.
Speed boats with RPGs. So, um, let's go
ahead and be a jerk here. So, I'm going
to grab my shift F1 here. Yeah, that
thing looks really dangerous. It'd be a
real shame if somebody blasted it. That
was a fantastic movie, by the way, if
you have not had a chance to see it. Uh,
weapons tight. Uh, no line of sight. No
line of sight. Uh, we're going to fire a
pair of these cuz I'm an absolute jerk
like that. Whoops. I didn't mean to fire
a 20 mm cannon. 20 mm cannon. Go ahead
and try that. Yes, those are extremely
expensive weapons, but that's okay.
That's okay because um one of the
problems with helicopters is they're
very vulnerable to surface term
missiles. And uh we're going to end that
vulnerability immediately by basically
crippling that guy's uhoh. Uh that looks
a little weird. Whoa. I'm not worried
about that. Uh-oh. Look at this. This
thing's just dropping in from space.
Sup? And one slams into it and the other
one slams into it. Fabulous. So now I
can go ahead and grab evil twin here.
F1.
Grab him. F1. And again, uh, that's a
technical term for releasing the mouse.
Uh, ignore plotted course. Yes, you may
ignore plotted course. All right, let's
let our helicopter friends uh, do the
helicopter kind of game here. So, the
helicopter game is fun. Uh, both of
these helicopters have app quiz. Uh, for
those of you not familiar with those,
um, they're basically rockets that they
just basically hydros, the ones with
little fins that fold out when they
launch. And you put a laser on them or
laser receiver on them, and you just
have a good day with it. All right,
watch this. Fire.
Now, of course, at this point, I might
as well just grab this guy and do one of
these as well. There we go. Now, we can
join in on the fun because uh the
threat's there. So, look at this. The
helicopter does his thing. He goes ahead
and attacks. You can see them all
responding because they've lost vessels.
And the helicopter's basically plinking
them with rockets. Uh they're going to
Look at this. Look at this. Look at
this. You get a rocket and you get a
rocket. And you get a rocket. And you
get a rocket. And you can see that's a
bit of a force multiplier to say the
least there. So, I'm going to give it a
few moments here. You can see [laughter]
now the destroyer is getting in on it.
Oh, boy.
Oh, yeah. There it is. That, my friends,
is 100% pure uh American taxpayer money
at work there. Especially these over
here, which are going to end up in um by
the time they land, they'll be like in
southern France. All right. Oh, we come
some more. Oh, there goes another one.
Oh, we missed that one. Oh no. Boom.
Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Oh
my goodness. Um, we basically converted
that entire armada into uh very
expensive expedition.
Look at how many times we missed.
[laughter]
Okay. Um,
uh, okay. That's not good.
How did they not hit twin? Go do
something about that, please. The other
guy's like, I'm out of muscles, buddy.
Okay. Can we drop him as a target? Cuz
clearly we're running. Oh, there we go.
Oh, check this out. Oh. Oh. Oh, that's a
problem. That's a problem. No, no, no,
[laughter] no, no, no. It's got an
active radar sensor. Oh no, I'm gonna
lose a helicopter.
Nice shot. Meanwhile, Joe and the Sea
Boys is like, "Got it."
All right, good job. Good job. All
right, come back. Come back. Twin and
evil twin, come on back. Come on back.
All right. Meanwhile, this guy, he's got
some work to do cuz uh he's got
incoming. Unfortunately, we went through
all of our real weapons and we've left
ourel completely exposed to uh uh oh the
weapons that could actually sink us. So,
this is sort of an ironic ending here.
And it's again another demonstration of
uh oh no, [laughter]
I think that's it for us. Look at how
bad it took out our radars. We only have
like a little bit of radar coming out of
there right now.
So, um that was kind of an ironic ending
to all that. So, uh what are our
takeaways here? Uh, first of all, it all
depends on who's got turn what turned
on. Um, if you have enough early enough
warning, even at a distance of 15 miles
here with the island basically blocking
it, it really wasn't too difficult. By
the way, what we want to do is we want
to basically reduce the minimum speed
here as we desperately try to put
ourselves out. I don't think we're going
to be able to. Uh, we're not flooding
bad. This is going to take about 6
months to repair this thing at the
minimum. I mean, if you want to actually
take a look at the damage control, look
at this. Actually, we did okay. We did
okay. That could have been way worse.
Again, we didn't lose, you know, no
maneuvering casualties here, but Twin
Evil Twin did a fabulous, fabulous job
of this. So, what are the takeaways?
First of all, as I showed you before, um
it was an expensive engagement. And
again, one jet ski attack equals one
regime change is the best way to kind of
think about it here. Um 100% casualties
in the enemy face. By the way, this is
only eight C201s if you were curious, by
the way. But, um you can take a look
here. Again, probably $150 million worth
of munitions that we deployed there. and
our result is about half a billion
dollars worth of repairs plus the cost
of the inevitable war that is going to
come afterwards. Now, obviously, if I
had like a thousand of those boats, this
battle would be a little different. But
the reality is for the cost of about
half a million, you did an awful lot of
damage to something that's going to be
about a half a billion cost. So, from a
cost perspective, nice job. From a
success perspective, there was a little
bit of success here, but like I said,
good way to uh cause them to come back
with much much bigger missiles. Enjoy.