# C: MO - Understanding Chaff, Flares and other countermeasures
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WV4w-TJdBoo
Video ID: WV4w-TJdBoo

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be answering a question
somebody had recently where they were
asking, "How do I make uh decoys work?
You know, if I want to fire a bunch of
chaff or a bunch of flare, what button
do I push?" And the reality is, for the
most part, most of those things are
handled completely automatically, as in
the little miniature pilot, you know,
the one pixel wide pilot who's operating
our airplane right now is basically
going to be the one who's responsible
for deploying everything at exactly the
moment it's supposed to be deployed.
Now, it's important that I preface this
real quickly saying you actually can
intentionally lay chaff as a continuous
stream. We covered that like about four
years ago. So, you can go take a look at
that if you want to check it out. But
the point here is we have an F-16 and
we're sneaking up on an SA2. I've
ordered this F-16 and not to do anything
defensive when it gets launched at. Now,
the reason I like this scenario is
because if I actually pop up the F-16
here, I'm like, "Yay, F-16." One of the
things you'll notice is it has a couple
defensive tools. For one, of course, you
probably notice that it's a radar
warning receiver. Very helpful. By the
way, you also observe that it has CM
countermeasure dispensing system and has
a bunch of chaff and a bunch of flare.
And importantly, it has the ALE50
version 2 twin 2 decoy 2 system with
four decoys. What is that? That is a
toad decoy aka the little buddy that
theoretically creates a big enough radio
frequency kind of target that if you
shoot a missile at it, it goes after the
decoy instead of the F-16 itself. That's
the theory. Uh, it's also also worth
noting that this particular loadout
right now also has another defensive
tool, and that's the fact that it has
the lovely an ALQ184DECM
pod. Now, you're sitting here going,
"Well, that was a lot of uh ei.
What does it all mean?" Well, let me
show you what it means, cuz if you can
see it, it'll make more sense when it
happens. So, first thing I'm going to do
is I'm going to go ahead and unpause
because why not? But I'm also going to
go ahead and switch over my map mode, or
I should say my message log mode to be
traditional. So, I'm going to click the
little arrow and I have this little
button right here. It's actually in all
mode. You have enter mode. You have all
you have all sorts of different little
options here depending on what you need
the message log to do. One thing you can
do though is you can pop it into a
separate window. And the reason I like
popping it into a separate window is
when the fireworks start, it's going to
be easier to actually see it as it
happens, which I don't know. I just find
that helpful, I guess, kind of a thing.
I don't know. It's just me. All right.
So, let's call some problems here. F16
is sneaking up on the SA2. I can't tell
you how many games and how many times
I've done this exact scenario with that
exact type of airplane against that
exact type of target. Although, let's be
honest, very rarely would you get popped
at by an SA2DE. That's a Soviet system.
A lot of times they'd be Fs especially,
and sometimes the um you like the C and
the B's if it's like a Vietnam scenario.
Regardless, we're going to go ahead and
have them fire at us cuz they're only
going to take a few sec. There it is.
Beautiful. Pause. Excellent. Now, let's
see what happened here. So, we notice
there was a new weapon contact to Sam.
Uh we also notice there was another
weapon contact. We can see it sneaking
in here. Connections been lost.
Connections been lost. That was a little
unusual because we lost sight of the
missile as it came off the barrel. It's
okay though because they'll fire another
one in a second. There we go.
Delightful. Here it comes. Here it
comes. Here it comes. And pause. Nice.
Excellent. That did everything I wanted.
By the way, the reason it disappeared is
there's a mountain range here. I forgot
my own geometry. Okay. So, if you come
down here now, you'll see that we have a
weapon contact SAM number five detected
at 13 miles. That's pretty good eyes to
be honest. Now, you'll notice when the
missile got to us, the first thing that
happened is the ANLE50
um went ahead and kicked on. It's a
1990s technology. It attempted to seduce
the incoming SAM. And you can see here,
it has about a 40% chance to do so. It
rolled an 81, so it failed. So, my anal
blew it. So, then it moves on to the
next defensive tool, which happens to be
generic chaff. Now, this generic chaff,
you push the chunk here. Chaff flare.
Chaff flare. A bunch of chaff and flare
came ejecting. I hope you just push the
chaff button. You'll notice here that um
it's got a really really good chance of
actually confusing the missile. The
reality is the SA2 is garbage against
especially modern chaff. And you'll see
here that it was a success which means
that this particular tool, the chaff
cartridge actually caused the missile to
lose its actual target and miss. So this
chaff cartridge won. Now if you come up
here a little bit, you'll notice the
anal had a second try. Now you're
sitting here going, "Dude, that doesn't
make sense because if you look here,
according to this, the chaff already did
it." That's correct. But remember these
things are all happening simultaneously.
So our two decoys failed are chaff one.
If we come to this one, you'll notice
that these two are not a second shot of
the chaff, but the reality is it's the
chaff against the second missile. So
you'll see the first round went through,
the RT failed. Chaff succeeded. The
second missile, we have the RT again,
the little buddy failed, but the Chaff
again succeeded. So, as a result, both
of these weapons completely missed the
target. And it even says here, all
seekers were spoofed, missed target. And
you can see that they vanished because
anybody who's ever played any flight sim
would know that at this point, of
course, what would happen is our sand
would just go by and go and basically
make a huge, really nasty, angry, loud
firework. But the cool thing, of course,
is R16 got in range. So, we can now go
ahead and have the F16 get the heck out
of here. Actually, I think he's got to
finish dropping his weaponry there. Uh
F-16. Yep. You can actually look over
here and see that he's gone through
quite a bit of his resources here. Uh
you can turn around now and leave. Go,
go, go, go, go, go. Maximum altitude
after burner, which is the last thing
you'd want to do. You'd want to drag it
higher. But this is good. This is good.
This is good. Check this out. Check this
out. [laughter]
Consider yourself splattered.
Boom. Nicely done. F16. Nicely done.
That's what I'm talking about. Now, one
of the things you'll find kind of cool
here is if I come back here, you can
actually see that quite a bit of party
went on here. And now you can actually
see that other F-16 actually took a pot
F-16. The other SA2 actually took a pot
shot. Remember that one that was chasing
me down? But you could see it basically
ran out of energy. We also found out
that an SA7, yes, some dude with a
shoulder launched weapon actually took a
pot shot at that weapon um wind
corrected munitions dispenser. And I'm
just going to tell you right now, let's
see here what he had for a choice here.
He had a 1% chance to hit, which is
pretty good. But you can see the result.
74. That's a miss. And again, he didn't
hit anything. Of course, our weapons,
they did their job perfectly and
basically [snorts] all over the SAM site
itself. So, the reason this is important
is when you get some more complex units.
Let me let me go get you one real
quickly here. Let's get a B52
H. And now we'll get a nice modern one.
Ah, there we go. That's what I'm talking
about. Yeah, let's go all out. Let's go
all out. If we get to something like a
B-52, one of the things you have to
watch out for is that look at how many
defensive tools it has. It actually only
has flares and chaff. And you're like,
are you kidding me? That's it. But the
reality is, if you actually prop up
here, you'll realize it has more than
that. It also has, of course, the radar
warning receiver, the defensive ECM,
which would be subtracted directly from
the attack. And of course, we have the
OECM and DECM. So, it's actually
possible to block the radars from ever
knowing you were there, assuming you're
on the correct wavelength, which is
something I've discussed before. Now,
the crazy thing here is this also
applies to things like torpedoes. So, if
a torpedo has a certain chance of
hitting a ship, let's go get one just as
an example here. We'll go grab ourselves
submarine. Of course, we're going to
grab Virginia. Meet Virginia. We'll grab
that one. Looks good to me. And it
doesn't really have a load out, but if I
pop this one up, if I scroll down just a
little bit, you'll see the fact that
they've got the signal ejector, the 3-in
one, and they have this nice torpedo
decoy. If I actually hit that, you could
get the stats on it. And if you just
were curious here, you will observe that
against a subsurface target, it only has
a 20% chance of succeeding. That's
assuming, by the way, that the thing
that it's defending against is not a
more modern version of whatever
particular weapon system is. That's
something we've dealt with in another
day as well. The important thing to note
here, though, is that is going to be
subtracted as the torpedo hits. It's not
going to have to be activated special
for those of you who play cool waters
and stuff like that. It's always
automatic. Enjoy.