# C: MO - Cluster versus Iron Bombs Comparison
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XZ1EdSDI0mE
Video ID: XZ1EdSDI0mE

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at the
difference between traditional iron
bombs. If you imagine the high explosive
variety and cluster bombs. For the
purposes of this demonstration, what
I've done is I've created this little uh
kind of chaa line of different units on
the ground. We have an armored platoon
with some T72s. We of course have some
nice soft trucks. We have some infantry
units coming up here. Of course, we have
a bridge. And then finally, of course,
we have a bunker. And now the reason
I've done it this way is to make it very
very clear kind of what happens when you
employ these weapons directly. Now each
one of these aircraft like I said in my
little Kakonga line here is equipped on
the left side with a four iron bombs
each and on the right side it is with
some cluster bombs each. They're all at
the same altitude and you can see that
they're basically lining themselves up
very neatly for the purposes of my
demonstration here. Now one of the
things I want to make really clear too
is I also made my terrain very very
barren. So, whenever you're using
cluster bombs or iron bombs, you have to
remember that as the terrain gets
sketchier, for example, if you're in the
jungle, it's going to have a dramatic
impact in basically degrading the
quality of the weapon. So, you can see
the weapons are dropping now, and you
can see we're pretty much getting hits
across the board here. These are very,
very accurate planes. One of the reasons
I chose 2,000 ft here and also set them
to ace basically ability, is so that you
could actually see everything kind of
side by side and kind of have a better
understanding of the overall impact
here. All right, let's go ahead and
pause and see the results here. So,
first of all, everybody did a really
nice cluster. Um, I'm not referring to
the cluster bombs. I'm referring to the
fact that that was a pretty clean sweep
there. One of the things you'll notice
here is if I come down to my armored
units that my armored units who are
attacked by the traditional iron bombs
are actually not affected. Uh, you need
to get a much more direct hit on an
armored unit with an iron bomb to
actually crush it. Now, keep in mind if
we're using laserg guided bombs, it's a
very different story, but these are
unguided. Over here on the right, our
cluster bombs, however, covered a wider
area and was able to do a significantly
greater amount of damage to it. Against
our trucks, uh you just have to get in
the neighborhood of a truck to blow a
truck up. And as you can see very
clearly, both sets of bombs did a
wonderful job here. Again, very tight
spread. Good bomb. When we got up to the
infantry, uh you'll notice both units
were easily wiped out. Again, the great
thing about any soft target is as long
as you come close, it does the deed. One
of the things of course we could have
done is clustered a group of infantry
together and attacked one in which case
again our cluster bomb would have had
that wider kind of reach. Now where
things get interesting is when we get to
hard targets. Uh what you'll observe
here is that our bridge on the left
blown away. Our bridge on the right
barely scratched. Now keep that in the
back of your head for a minute here. Now
our final target of course was an
underground bunker. Now underground
bunkers are very hard to hit with
anything. But what you'll notice here is
my left bunker was actually scratched.
Uh we managed to do 1.2% 2% damage to
it. On my right here, you'll notice
nothing happened. It probably knocked an
antenna that was sticking out of the
ground off of it. And again, as you can
see, as the target gets progressively
harder and more stationary, it does a
substantially larger quantity of damage.
Now, one of the things I like to share,
too, is let's go ahead and increase a
little bit of entropy here. And by
entropy, of course, I'm referring to
lack of accuracy. So, let's go over to
my weather real fast. And uh let's crank
up the wind. And this is a good
demonstration of this as well. So,
that's a seate 4. or that would be very
unpleasant.
So, uh what we'll do here is we'll go
ahead and do the same operation.
Remember, none of the weapons in this
scenario are laserg guided. They have no
wind correction, uh nothing like the
WMCDs or anything along those lines. So,
we'll let everybody kind of get all
lined up. This is kind of fun to set up
and just kind of get like the timing
right. And again, they're within like 30
seconds of each other. So, I think I did
fine.
Bombs away. Now, whoa, what a mess.
Fantastic. Nice job, everybody. Now, one
of the things you'll notice here is the
fact that our armor target, let me go
and pause for a second here. I don't
even think took damage. Yeah, no damage
whatsoever that checks completely.
Whereas, when we use the cluster bomb
against the target here, remember the
wind is awful. Absolutely awful. Again,
wind floor is pretty substantial wind
here. It would make an interesting
landing to say the least. But what
you'll see here is even though the wind
kicked in and cluster bombs are
notorious for getting carried by the
wind, we still did a really nice job of
denting up this T72. Coming up here
again, trucks. You just have to be in
the neighborhood to blow up a truck. Uh,
swinging over here. I think it's safe to
say that this uphor infantry here is
about to get hit. As a matter of fact,
we can unpause real quick. Yeah, that
did the job. No problem. Swinging up to
a hard target. Once again, you will
observe that the hard target got
splattered uh by the larger weapon. This
is actually a second round coming off
this guy. He basically took a cheap shot
on the way past kind of a thing. But
again, you'll notice the cluster bridge
or cluster bridge. That'd be an
interesting What is that? The cluster
bomb was not nearly as effective against
this hardened target. Swinging up here,
exactly the same as last time. You'll
observe that our left bunker barely
scratched and our right bunker not
scratched at all. Like I said, maybe you
shot an antenna or something off of it.
Now, you're sitting here going, "Okay, I
think I get the gist here." So, iron
bombs basically are secret weapons
against things that stay put and are
pretty big, but um they're pretty
useless against, you know, things that
are very, very kind of getting a feel.
Kind of getting a feel. Now, one of the
things you have to think about too is uh
whenever you're employing any of these
is what happens when you try it against
a ship. Now, one of the challenges with
ships, of course, is ships move.
Generally, they don't stay in one place.
If they are, they're pretty easy
targets. So, where things get
interesting is ships generally are
fairly well protected. You know, if you
got a bunch of aircraft obviously on the
deck of a ship or something like that,
that's just going to make things very,
very interesting for the poor damage
control crew in about five minutes. But
the reality is when it comes to ships,
they're very very similar to buildings
in the sense that they're very durable.
So, uh, when you hit them with a lot of
little things, overall, your effect is
going to be different than if you try to
hit it with a big thing. Now, I'll go
ahead and speed up time a little bit
here. Kind of save us the pain and
anguish of seeing what happens here.
Let's see here. Pretty clean. Pretty
clean. I don't think they're going to
release at the same time, but they're
going to get pretty close there. So, our
guy on the right, of course, is dropping
off the CPU. So, the one on this side.
Um,
are we out of range, my friend? One. Oh,
you've already got four. Apparently,
he's going to drop five. Oh, it's cuz of
the uh the parallax here. That's okay.
We dropped an extra one, but I don't
think it's going to make that much of a
difference. All right, so we can see on
the right. Um, apparently instead of
dropping a cluster bomb, we accidentally
dropped fireworks, but it should wake
the crew up pretty well. And of course,
here comes our iron bombs here. Oh,
that's going to be a pretty clean. Oh,
look at that bracket.
Oh, I don't think a single one of those
actually got a clean hit, whereas that
one did. So, let's go ahead and uh
control V here and take a peek. So, on
the right, um we have a right shark
here. Uh he is on fire. He is flooding.
Good news, the flood will put the fire
out. Uh the reality is the ship is done.
The ship will sink in a few moments
here. Um the system's not too bad, but
what you'll notice here is the damage is
relatively low. We didn't do a lot of
damage. We basically speckled the deck
and everywhere just creating a million
little holes and it's going to be like I
said, this guy's not going to recover
from this. Uh, swinging over to this
one. What do you notice? You will
observe the fact that our lovely ship
here has been scraped a little bit. Not
catastrophically scraped here. As a
matter of fact, if go to dim now, we
can't damage control. So, if I give it a
little bit of time, let me go ahead and
fast forward real quickly here. You'll
see our buddy on the right. Um, he's
he's on fire. He's flooding. He's uh not
not feeling very good. And uh it's it's
it's struggling a little here. And uh
let's see if the situation gets much
worse here. Oh, coming for another pass
apparently. Sorry about that. All right,
let's see here. rudder straight ahead.
Is the flooding going to get worse? Yep.
Goodbye. And you can see here that four
measly 250 kg cluster bombs was able to
sink an aircraft carrier. And that just
gives you an idea of that. Now, the cool
thing here or kind of the interesting
thing here is you'll probably observe
the fact that when we struck our left
carrier here, we more or less bracketed
the ship. We didn't hit it directly,
which should probably be kind of the
theme that I've been speaking about
earlier.
You will probably also notice that we
did not get a direct hit on the cousins
or the carrier here. So, what we're
going to do here is we're going to get
the same sized weapon, but we're going
to put a proper secret run. Remember, we
bracketed that ship, whereas the cluster
bomb basically speckled it all over. And
again, these are not armored vessels.
So, if I were to quickly go ahead and u
grab my CAB 250s here, this is again the
same bomb, but it's got a basically a
warhead on the front that makes it a
little bit more accurate. It's a laserg
guided weapon, which is a little
different. So, he goes ahead and drops
these off. Now, keep in mind these are
LGBs. These weapons have a laser.
They're lighting right in the center of
the carrier. Basically, our Sequoi 25
here just to kind of keep his little
Kasier right on it. Those things will
automatically lock based on contrast and
all that stuff. Now, this is where it's
going to be a little tiny bit different
here. Oh boy. Oh boy. All right. Left
carrier. Um, surprise. Oh,
I felt that from here. Oof. That is uh
four direct non bracketed hits. And now
when I say bracket, what I'm referring
to is basically hitting everything but
and again when they say bracket, they
usually mean actually hitting the ship
with more than one. So let's go take a
look at our buddy here. And what you'll
observe is the fact that even though we
struck it directly with laserg guided
bombs, our lovely friend, the
armorpiercing cluster bomb, actually did
a substantially larger amount of damage
and did not require a unique seager for
the purposes of actually hitting. As a
matter of fact, he's looking pretty good
right now. Um, like you can see, he's at
8.4% damage. U, we can't see exactly. We
probably shut off a bunch of antennas
and radars. That's pretty much the
thing. So, I know what you're sitting
here thinking. You're sitting here
going, "But what if you had a laserg
guided cluster bomb?" I would say you're
a little out of luck. There really are
no laserg guided cluster bombs. You have
wind corrected munitions dispensers,
which is what our A10 here have. But,
believe it or not, those weapons can't
be directly used against ships, which is
kind of a shame. So, if I were to
actually open this sucker up real
quickly here, the CBU 103, which is a
fantastic weapon here. Quite the
speckling kind of a thing. You'll
observe it is an INS weapon. It is not.
So, it cannot hit a moving target, which
is it kind kind of sucks, but um um
there's a way to solve this. That's why
we have stuff like this, the GBU10 with
the BLU nose on it. Uh this is a
penetrator warhead. So, we're basically
trading the speckle for the uh punch, I
guess, is the expression I would use
here. Um, I'm not too worried about it
though. These things are stupid weapons.
And this is also very very very large
weapon. So, dropping this thing at an
altitude like that through the deck of a
carrier. That's That's basically kind of
rude. And, you know, essentially, you've
got a bunker buster here, and it's it it
I know we've already scratched him from
before, but it's not going to matter.
This thing's going to go right through
the deck and probably explode somewhere
in the engineering spaces if I had to
guess. Oh, no. That's a pretty flat
angle. What am I saying? So, it's going
to go through the Oh, ow, ow, ow, ow.
All right, let's take a look here. Yep,
he's done.
Most likely that went up through the
deck and then blew up underneath the
water line, basically inside of the
ship. So, um, we did cause a big fire,
but you can see here it is flooding and
it's it's that's unreoverable. So, what
are the big takeaways here? Uh, the big
takeaways here are if you don't have the
accuracy, CPUs are great. If you're
dealing with a very very hard physical
targets, um, iron bombs are better. But
basically, anything that's a vehicle,
there's a cluster bomb for it. anything
that is like a hard target, there's
probably an iron bomb for it. When it
comes to ships, um if they're lightly
armored, such as, you know, like I said,
our carrier over here, cluster bombs are
actually fabulous against it. Um if it's
something that's a little bit more
armored, um like if we did the Iowa or
something along those lines, we just
wouldn't be able to damage it. It
basically knock a bunch of antennas off
like I said before, but we're not
actually going to penetrate its armor.
You need something that hits a little
bit harder. And uh when you really
really really need to do the deed,
remember you can only use as a weapon
that basically like I said it would have
gone through the deck and exploded.
Enjoy.