# C: MO - Refueling and Rearming Ships At Sea
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xz9A8IsvFpI
Video ID: Xz9A8IsvFpI

Hello everyone. It was once said that a
beginner studies tactics and a master or
professional studies logistics. Today
we're going to take a look at one aspect
of logistics and that's going to be
underway replenishment of vessels that
are at sea. Now uh somebody was having
an interesting question where they're
like, "Is there any way I can basically
shove some tomahawks back into my empty
destroyers? Been having a heck of a fun
time with it." And the answer is yeah.
There's actually a couple different ways
you can do it. The simplest method, of
course, we covered in a video a little
while ago where we basically went into
shore and basically pulled tomahawk
missiles out of bunkers and we actually
delivered them by aeroplane. Uh today
we're going to take a look at how they
do it while they're already underway,
especially in the middle of the ocean.
So, let's go ahead and take a look at
our scenario here. So, we have a very
very very small carrier group here. We
have the lovely Milus Air and Arley
Burke number one and he's basically
chilling. He's had a busy week. He's
fired off a lot of Tomahawks. He's fired
off a lot of SM. Um, I don't even know
what happened to the rest of the carrier
group, but we can safe to say he's had a
fun time. You can also see that he does
not have a lot of fuel on board. He's
more or less empty. Our carrier on the
flip side is looking pretty good. Uh,
you can see that our carrier there has
got a full tank because, of course, it's
nuclearpowered, but it has gone through
a substantial amount of its aviation
fuel because obviously it's going to be
supporting all the F-35s and stuff that
ripping off the deck. Yes, I know what
year it is. So, what we're going to take
a look at here is we're going to try to
figure out how to get stuff into these
vessels now that we're at sea. So, what
I'm going to do is start by clicking on
my lovely little DDG here, popping this
sucker up real fast. And what I want to
show you real quick, and this is going
to be kind of a point that's going to
confuse you a little bit later on, is
the fact that our vessel itself can
refuel from port, can refuel from
starboard, replenish from port,
replenish from starboard. Now, this is
important because you'll notice it has
an X2, and it has an X2. That's cool. In
case one gets broken, we can use the
other one. That's all that means. It
does not mean you can stick like eight
ships into the side of this thing and
basically fill it up in a hurry. That'd
be kind of fun if you could do that, but
other reality you can't. The other thing
we need to pay attention to is the type
of fuel it carries. You'll notice we
have two kinds. We have a gas fuel, good
oldfashioned MGO, and of course, we have
aviation fuel in a secondary fuel tank.
You know, we burnt quite a bit of this.
Now, if you're a level designer and you
want to kind of have some fun with this,
one of the things you can actually do if
you're in scenario edit mode, like I am
right now, is if you right click on
these and go down to the scenario
editor, edit unit properties, set unit
properties. You can't do this in
scenario mode. Obviously, you can
actually come in here with this little
drop down and pick what you want to
control. You can see, like I said, while
does he burn fuel fast. It's quite a bit
in a very, very short period of time. We
got to get some gas in this guy here.
So, there's a bunch of different ways
that we can replenish. And everybody's
favorite way that doesn't work is by
air. So, what I have right here is I
have a lovely C2 Greyhound. This is a
really neat plane. If you've not seen
this, a carrier based basically mini
mini mini cargo plane. And now, believe
it or not, what I did to this poor thing
is I put an ISO 20ft container on it.
And inside there, of course, there's a
tomahawk missile waiting. Now, you're
sitting there going, "This is so cool.
We can just take that vessel and we can
order him to land, which is what he's I
just ordered him to do." He's going to
land on the ship. He's going to unload
that container and the container is
going to sit on the deck of the ship.
Unfortunately, there's no way that we
can do that. But we can't get into that
container and basically pull the missile
out of it cuz it wouldn't matter anyway
because we'd have a very heck tough time
basically trying to get the thing into
the destroyer across the ocean here. So
unfortunately that strategy at least at
this time is not going to work like you
want it to. Keep in mind if you have an
aircraft that has softened like it's
loaded out it can drop that off in the
carrier. Okay. So now that that's taken
care of, let's take a look at our
options for replenishment here. There's
kind of the I call it the almost aerial
refueling method which is a little it's
okay. It's okay. And of course the other
method we have is to basically ride
alongside of it while you refuel. So the
US uh Navy at this time basically has
three different flavors of replenishment
ship. That makes sense. You basically
have your fast combat support ships. Uh
this is this guy right here. This is the
T AOE 6. In the old days you had these
AOS which are basically these big ships
that could kind of do one of everything.
Let me go grab you one of those real
quick just for the sake of being
thorough today. Uh, let's see here. A O
R Wita is the one. So, if you want to
imagine, this ship was basically a kind
of an all-in-one. It had fuel on board.
It had dry stores on board. You can see
it's got a million cranes and debits on
the side, making it really, really easy.
Solid ship. Uh, we kind of got rid of
these, as you can see a little while
ago. Instead, we kind of diversified the
fleet as far as it goes. Um, our second
option, of course, here is all of the
Henry Kaiser class. These are your
oilers. Let me see if I can get you a
bigger picture here.
This particular vessel, again, this is
designed for the stuff that burns,
basically, if you want to think about
petroleum, oil, lubricants, stuff like
that. This is kind of the all-in-one.
It's also very, very fast ship. I think
it's about like 20 knots or 22 knots.
And then, of course, if you just need
missiles and stuff like that, you have
the AK versions. This is the Louiswis
and Clark here. Very simple. It's a dry
cargo ship. And when I look at this, you
can see it's also a little bit smaller.
This thing, as you can tell by the
openings on the side and everything, it
is engineered from the ground up for the
purposes of dropping things like
missiles and stuff off. Now, if you're a
scenario designer, one of the things you
have to keep in mind is you have to put
missiles and stuff into there. You're
not going to get it by default. So, if I
click on this vessel and click on
magazines, you'll actually see here that
there's a special area here to add
munitions. So, for example, if I want to
add those tomahawks in here, I can
actually come down here. I can type in
uh what is it? RGMO. I never get it
right. And I know I know they're D's. Uh
where's my D's? Uh carbon filaments. I
didn't realize they had a thing for
that. That's cool. I got to go play with
that one later. And of course, you can
add as many as you want. You can come in
here and say, "Give me 100." And now
there's 100 tomahawks on here. Granted,
you can't shoot them off the deck, which
that seems legit, but um keep in mind,
we can now reload them. All right. Now
that that's taken care of, let's deal
with the actual replenishment. Now,
there's a couple different ways to do
this. And this is kind of where things
get a little interesting, I guess I
would say. So, the first thing we can do
is we can come over here, right click on
my entire group, unwrap, and pick which
one we want to do. We can either select
provider automatically, in which case
they're going to pick something that's
available and it's got what it needs, or
of course, we can do it manually. Then,
of course, we can also rearm
automatically, and we can rearm
manually. Now, one of the things that
happens, and you got to be kind of
careful with this, and by the way, we
can do this with missions as well, is
the fact that our lovely setup right
now, if I do this with a carrier group,
it's just going to go as the carrier and
this guy's going to do power donuts.
Now, it's useless to us. So, what I'm
going to do instead is hit my nine key
on the numpad, which allows me to select
these by unit. And then I can do them
individually. I really recommend doing
it this way because it's just simpler.
You'll see what I mean when we get more
complex in a second. So, I'm going to
come over here to my list here. I'm
right click on this one. I can unwrap. I
can provide automatically. And I can
rearm. Check this out. So, if I go to
select prior automatically and just go
like that, you'll notice he will break
from the group without actually breaking
from the group. That's important. and he
will go scoot scoot over to the first
guy who can basically refuel. If you
actually come up here, you can see
heading to refuel point. He's heading
over to the Gerald Ford. Now, did you
expect that? Um, you should have cuz if
you remember, our carrier here is
designed to do some replenishment of its
own. That is basically the old school
World War II logistics technique where
your carriers basically refueled all
their escorts. That was just kind of how
they did it. So, the cool thing here is
he's going to go ahead and peel off and
he's going to run into the carrier and
he's going to put some gas on board.
Now, the interesting thing is all he's
going to do is pick up aviation fuel.
He's not going to be picking up his gas
fuel because a carrier doesn't carry
any. Now, if I want him to rearm, of
course, I can come in here and I can say
rearm automatically. I can pick what
things I want to rearm, which is
actually really cool, assuming they're
available. I go like that to anything.
And what you'll notice here is he's
changed his mind. He's no longer going
to the carrier. He's decided to go over
to supply because supply has everything
he needs on board, which is super handy.
Let's go and speed up some time here.
There you can see it goes.
You can see the Greyhound just landed
there.
All right. So, let's go ahead and take a
look. By the way, I was mentioning
earlier, we can't make that delivery.
So, you'll see here that a Greyhound did
land. He's basically getting ready to
go. And you can see he dropped off the
ISO container. But unfortunately, like I
said, if I go to cargo right quick and I
go to my ISO container and I open it, it
says you can't put it like this. And
it's like a that would be so easy. I
could just deliver what I need. So
anyway, you can see Arley Burke here is
racing over to the resupply point. And
uh this is one of the things that people
forget about logistics. Okay, so we're
refueling. You can see I have 1.2
million kg of fuel to go. And you can
also see we're replenishing. We have 233
items. Oh, now keep in mind I cheated a
little because I actually loaded this
guy up with all sorts of really good
stuff. Like if I go into his magazine,
see how he's got all his tomahawks and
his rims and stuff like that. He's
pretty much ready to rock. So, you're
probably doing the math in your head
real quickly here going, "Okay, you're
at 15x speed and every time I look up,
it's about, you know, 100 kilograms."
Yeah, that's how fast that is. It's that
that's logistics for you. Now, the cool
thing here is, and I love this. If I
come to my Gerald 4 and right click, if
I were to actually go in here and say,
"Hey, do you mind uh doing this, too?" I
can come in here, right click with that.
I can come here, rearm automatically
like that. And check it out. He's going
to go rip over to the same ship. So both
of these ships are actually rearming at
the same time from the same buddy here.
So poor supply is basically getting
emptied by an aircraft carrier and
getting emptied by the Arley Burke down
here. Just kind of the fun I guess. You
can actually see it's a fuel start to go
down. It's kind of cool. And keep in
mind there's different types of fuel on
board as well. Now our carrier of course
you'll see he's refueling. He's actually
basically getting loaded up with
aviation fuel which he needs. And if I
come down here too, you can see uh how
we doing here? He's actually doing
pretty good. He's uh refueled nicely.
And the big thing for him is that he's
replenishing. And you can see it takes a
very very long time. Now, you're sitting
there going, "Wow, that's that's kind of
obnoxious." It's like, "Yeah, it is."
Let me show you something different. So,
I'm going to go and re select our
scenario again here. I'm going go and
open up blue team for the win. And what
I'm going to do is first of all, I'm
going to tell that Greyhound to come
down and land. I don't want him just
being around in the sky. We're going to
grab this ship. I'm going to move it
down here. I'm go ahead and delete this
point. And I'm actually going to group
these ships together so that our buddy
supply is actually part of our squad
here. Squad or whatever. I don't know. I
don't know. Vines aren't things anymore,
I hope. So, what we have here is we have
this one is now part of this group. What
I really want to do is be able to keep
going to my destination. But what I
really like is for everybody to go ahead
and get some stuff off this guy. Now,
there's a lot of really fun ways to do
this. And I'll show you one of the ways
that you could do it. So, what I'm going
to do is click right here, press F4, and
I'm going to make the supply vessel the
chief of this group. It sounds like a
bad idea, but you'll see why it's so
useful. And again, there's different
ways to do this, but this is kind of the
fun way to do it. All right, we're going
to set him as leader, which, like I
said, seems goofy. And I'm going to
cheat a tiny bit here. And I'm actually
going to place them into a little
formation like this. And all I did that
for is just to simplify kind of what's
coming up next. So, now that he is the
group lead, we can now do really silly
things like this. Watch this. I'm going
to come to the mus here, right click.
I'm going to unwrap. And look at this.
I'm going to select a provider manually.
Click. And now I'm going to go ahead and
order him to go ahead and do some
unwrapping. I'm going to grab this guy
over here. I'm going to go ahead and
select my provider. We're going to do
manual providing select. And I'm going
to go ahead and order him to go ahead
and uh do some rearming because he's
running out of stuff. Now, if you
observe here, this is this is pretty
wild if you actually watch this. But
you'll notice that my two vessels here
are basically sneaking up on the poor
witcha here. Actually, it's not the
witcha. You can tell I've done that one
a few times. All right. Are you guys
doing 10 knots? No, you need to slow
down. You need to slow down. We're about
to get two massive vessels coming
alongside your vessel right now. And
they're basically going to steal every
Why did you just turn that on? Uh
they're basically going to sit here and
steal stuff off of you. And again, this
is what's so great about these logistic
vessels is they can do silly things like
this. Like look at this. Look at this.
destroyer comes sneaking up and goes,
"Um, can you hit the brakes for just a
second? You're going awfully fast for
us." And what you'll notice here is we
are moving and resupplying
simultaneously. You can see he's taking
on his fuel. You can see he's also
replenishing those items. Meanwhile, the
carrier here is like, "Could you could
you slow down, please?" Is he going to
get it? Is he going to get it? I think
that's uh I don't want to say I got to
remember the name of that musical there.
I'll never remember. Ah, there you go.
So you can see here that our AOE6 supply
is actually providing for everybody
behind him. And as long as he has
available things to do that with, he can
crank those things out. Keep in mind in
bad weather, you can't do this. And
again, he can do two, one, two, three,
four ships. Oh, wait. What's this? He
can do four ships at a time. And then
replenishment, he can do six ships at a
time. That's absurd. And I have no idea
how in the universe with any real
weather you'd be able to pull something
like that off. But you can see right
away just how darn useful this
particular strategy is once you're
already at sea. I wonder what happened
to our poor greyhound. He's coming. He's
coming. He's had a long week. He's
coming, though. So, as you can see, it
is perfectly possible to do silly things
like this where we basically use one
vessel to kind of keep everybody
rearmed. Uh things you need to know
though is obviously this takes a long
time to do. This is not something you
want to see a little chaot line. Let me
show you. Um it takes a while and you
probably noticed when you're doing
anything with fuel, the fuel numbers
tend to be in millions. They don't tend
to be in like hundreds or anything like
that. Yeah, look at this. Look at this.
So, if I were a really really angry
missile right now, you can see just how
easy of a task this would be to
basically end this entire fleet. But it
also gives you an idea in the real
world. They'll actually pull up
alongside like this. It'll basically run
hoses to each other. And it is the most
sketchy dangerous thing you've ever
seen. Especially if you take a look at
the difference in scale of the vessels.
I think this guy's a little oversized,
but that's okay. It is really, really
cool stuff though. But as you can see,
very useful. We could also create a
mission for it. I chose not to do that
because if you create a mission, it's
going to do the same thing as what we
did over here originally. But as you can
see, if you just add them to the group
and slow down, makes it easy enough.