# Command: Modern Operations Livestream - Introduction to the game and gameplay basics
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y9T2YfdWn8Y
Video ID: Y9T2YfdWn8Y

Hello everyone, and welcome back. This
is a live stream that we haven't done in
a very, very long time. I actually think
my last Command live stream was
something a little over 2 years ago when
I was actually demonstrating the
professional edition of Command, which
was absolutely wild. And believe it or
not, I still do have the professional
version of Command. And now, that's not
actually what we're going to be showing
off today. You might actually find it
interesting to know that I don't usually
play the professional edition. I
actually prefer the civilian version for
a lot of different reasons, but I'm kind
of again, things you can ask to get a
little later on. So, the purpose of this
live stream today is to basically
provide folks who are new to the game to
understand what it is you're getting
when you buy Command. And my hope also
is that we get a little bit of
interaction from the kind of the
audience who are going to sneak in there
and maybe toss in a couple of kind of
unasked questions, or unanswered
questions that we can kind of go
through. Maybe there's something you'd
like to see, and again, I'll kind of
keep an eye on that as as I'm sort of
doing my spiel here. So, uh what is
Command Modern Operations? Well, Command
Modern Operations, for those of you who
know the Harpoon games or Fleet Command
or any of those, is basically an
all-encompassing air, ground,
underwater, naval, every unit that ever
existed, ever sort of game smashed into
one in the terms of sort of a tactical
slash theater sort of strategy game.
Now, the base game itself, of course,
comes with a bunch of different options.
If you actually come in here, you have
all sorts of really, really cool
scenarios. Uh believe it or not, I spend
very little time with scenarios. Uh that
you know, it kind of sounds scandalous
from somebody who's played it and kind
of been the voice of Command for so many
years, but believe it or not,
you know, a lot of the time in this
program, I actually spend developing my
own scenarios. And that's actually what
we're going to be doing today. So, what
I'm going to do is uh from our main
menu, we're on 1328.7. Uh one thing I
got to say right now is there a couple
of known bugs in 1328.7 that have
already been addressed in the next
version that's going to be coming out
pretty soon. So, keep in mind, like some
things might not work right, and I'll
kind of comment on that as we go, but
they're already being addressed. So, I'm
going to come down here and create new
scenario. Now, inside of Commands, when
you're creating a new scenario, believe
it or not, there's this is this is what
you get. You get the globe and not much
else. And now, that's what's so amazing
about this program is that it actually
has the whole globe.
The first thing I usually do, and our
scenario today is going to take place
over here in Iran. Uh so, of course, uh
things that change around a little bit
as we do it, is we have to actually
place everything that we intend to use.
But there are actually some tools built
in to kind of make our lives a little
bit simpler. Now, when you're first
learning this game, as tempting as it is
to go right over there and uh hit the
you know, the tutorial missions, which
are absolutely fantastic, I actually
recommend that you open up the scenarios
that you're interested in playing and
open them from there, so you can
actually see kind of what's going on in
the backdrop as you're working through a
particular scenario. I find that makes
it easier. Plus, if you need nuclear
weapons to finish the other guy off, you
can just get them, kind of a thing like
that. So, what I'm going to do is set up
a very, very basic scenario. We're going
to be doing a good old-fashioned strike
on an airfield. Now, the reason I pick
an airfield for my target here is
because of the fact that when a lot of
people One of the most common questions,
in fact, I've answered it hundreds of
times now, is how do you disable an
airfield? And that's exactly what we're
going to try to do. So, what I'm going
to do is go ahead and start by getting a
couple of different details. I'll give
us some scenario times. I'll go ahead
and I'll make it a nice and uh modern
scenario. We'll go ahead and do this in
January. We'll make it uh let's see
here, 1930. We'll go ahead and copy
those. Uh this is the where the scenario
starts. This is the current time. I'll
press okay, and you can see up at the
tippy top here, it's January 1st, 2020.
You can see the uh Zulu time, which if I
go over here, of course, the local
time's going to change time zones. And
you will also going to see up top where
my local time is, which is about 13:30
in the afternoon. That's a little late,
actually. We probably want to make this
a little bit earlier in the day here.
Oops, that's going to be a little bit
too much. We'll go ahead and pop
something like that in there. Hit okay.
7:30. I like that a little better. So,
what we're going to do now is we're
going to go ahead and add in some sides
here. We'll keep it nice and simple
here. We'll make Iran. And of course,
we'll grab ourselves another side. Let's
call it NATO. I don't know why NATO's
down here. I'm sure it's somebody
annoyed somebody, and again, I'm not
going to get into the tactical nature.
We'll go ahead and set up the sides
here. Again, keeping it super duper
simple. We're going to make them hostile
to start. We're not going to make them
unfriendly or have to do any of those
like little scenario shenanigans. Again,
we're trying to keep this uh relatively
basic here. Uh one thing we do want to
do though is under Iran here, we're
going to take his proficiency and reduce
it a little bit, and we're going to take
a NATO's proficiency, and we're going to
kind of leave it alone. Keep in mind,
proficiency is kind of a catch-all term
for things ranging from, you know, how
capable do you are to how quickly can
you get a missile launched to how low to
the ground you can fly to how good your
damage control processes. That's what
that proficiency is. And let's be honest
here. Uh if this were a little more
realistic, this would probably be the
proficiency ratings of the two sides. Uh
one of the things that you have to know
is that regular proficiency basically
assumes that you have some combat
experience, which at this time, there's
really not a lot. But um for now, we'll
kind of leave it that way.
Now, there's another thing that's really
valuable here, too. And we're not going
to change that because we're not adding
any civvies, but that's kind of a fun
thing to do. So, I'm going to go ahead
and uh double-click on Iran here, and
now, we're going to go ahead and get
ourselves uh some interesting targets.
Now, when I do this, uh when I play the
game, at least, uh one of the things I
like to do is I kind of like to
customize my views before I start
getting too carried away with a lot of
the different stuff that goes on sort of
in a scenario. So, one of the things
I'll do is actually come up here, and as
much as everybody loves this, I actually
shut that off. I find it to be kind of
bright. And uh believe it or not, most
of the time, I actually like to play in
a one of the open topo maps, or I like
to do kind of Stamen, where you have the
terrain. The huge advantage to the
terrain mode is that if you're building
something like I'll come down here and
keep it really zoom in on Bandar Abbas
here. If you want to build something
such as an airfield, um as you zoom in,
you'll actually get to see the
individual details of the airfield all
highlighted for you because everything's
basically going to be one giant gray.
So, if I actually come in here, uh I had
it a second ago. Let me zoom in. Whoop,
too far. There we go. You can actually
see just how simple it is to see the
individual components of a target, for
example. Or if I'm like trying to attack
a building or something, I can actually
zoom in and see the individual buildings
down here, which makes it a lot easier.
Now, the topo map they give you actually
works pretty much the same way. And if I
switch to open topo real fast, you can
see Look at how easy this is to spot
individual structures and different
items that I might be interested in
doing in a given scenario. Uh the
downside for this one, of course, is it
only has so much zoom that it is capable
of. But if we actually wanted to sit
here and construct this entire airport,
I can actually zoom in and be like, "Oh,
there's a medium building here, and it
looks like there's a tower here. Maybe
there's a barracks here. Maybe there's
an ammunition This could be a control
tower right here." And I can actually
stick in these individual components on
their own.
Now, when you're building quick missions
like the mission that we're uh setting
up here, one of the things I actually
will do is I will borrow the things that
already exist inside of the program
rather than trying to rebuild all of it
on my own just because it can take a
very long time. And uh especially if
you're watching this and you're a new
player to Command, you have to be
careful of this thing called scenario
creep, where basically you start with
something really, really simple, and it
just sort of snowballs, and uh suddenly
you have 16,000 units, and you've
recreated every single building in an
entire country. Um that's that's
ridiculous. And it's I you could do
that, but um it's it's going to get
pretty painful for you really, really
quickly. So, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to go ahead and double-check to
make sure I'm on the side I want to be,
which is Iran. I'm going to go swing
down to import/export units, load units,
and believe it or not, they have a bunch
of built-in things we can summon. So, if
I were to scroll down here, and uh say
we hit up Iran, for example, look at all
this good stuff they have, including
Bandar Abbas.
Whoop.
Whoop. Just like that. So, now, if I
close that, I can actually see here on
my map that that exists. Unfortunately,
my uh maps here is making things a
little too bright. So, now, believe it
or not, check this out. Somebody
actually modeled this for us already,
which makes this so much simpler for us
to actually do the work now because I
can see clearly that, you know, this is
roughly what it is. Now, I know some of
you are probably sitting here, "Can you
turn the topo map back on for a second
so we can see how well they did?" You
can see how nice of a job they actually
did as far as recreating a lot of the
components. And I get a kick out of the
fact they recognize the hardened
aircraft shelters on this side. They
give me some tarmac space on this side.
They'll put things like magazines and
stuff on this side. But uh more
importantly, they provided us with the
oh-so-important uh this is the runway
access point. And you're probably
saying, "Okay, so players who know this
game, of course, know the runway access
point is the magical target of any
airfield." And we'll get into that in a
little bit. Let's have said trying to
answer that question.
So, let's go ahead and uh put some
different details in here. So, in Bandar
Abbas here, um this is a major It's an
international airport. Uh there are some
military aircraft here. And people
always ask me, "What is your source? How
do you know X, Y, and Z?" Well, one of
the things I love about this is if you
want to nuke your house, you can nuke
your house with every nuclear weapon in
the entire Cold War in one whack if you
want. It doesn't matter. And that's what
I love about this program. This is why I
have far more hours than anybody should
have or have, kind of a thing like that.
So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to
go ahead and select the airfield itself.
And since I'm in map editor, you'll
notice I have a button up here in the
upper right that allows me to actually
edit aircrafts. And now, the cool thing
here is I could if I press this, it's
going to pop up a little screen that
has, I kid you not, all the airplanes.
If it flies and it exists and it's from
1979 on, it is on this list. But it's
more than that cuz I can go like this.
Let's say I want to do Oh, call sign. I
meant to do class. My bad, my bad. Let's
say I'm going to do an F-16. Which one
do you want? Uh I have a CM here. What
if you want just an F-16A? Okay, which
version of the F-16A would you have? And
they're all here. I can even do an
F-16XL if you're one of those people who
agree with me that it's cooler than an
F-15E. It's all here. And actually, I
love the fact that they put this right
at the top here to sort of give you that
little hint. But the cool thing is if I
want a bunch of Iranian uh F-16XLs, I
can stick it in there. If I want to give
them uh some MiG-29s, what version would
you like? But one of the things that's
so nice about this program that I get
such a kick out of is, you know, I can
come down here, and I can actually click
Iran, and of course, I can click from
for dates, and I can see when different
aircraft actually came in and out of
service. Uh for example, we know that
they have a lot of Phantoms. So, we have
F-4Ds and F-4Es. F-4E is the correct
Phantom, by the way, in my opinion, but
that's just me. And you can even see
things like this Mohajer um UAV here
actually came out of service in '97. So,
if we're being accurate here, we could
actually take the time to actually go
through it. And of course, with F-14As,
if we want to have some fun, we could
have the 1980s F-14A that had the
AIM-54s. Uh we could do MiG-21s. We
could do things that were basically
stolen from Iraq during the the Persian
Gulf War, the first one 1990. And all
these things are all located in here
that I can just summon.
Now, one thing that I will share really,
really quickly, which is again so
fascinating about this, is if I were to
go up here and actually click on my
database viewer, all this information is
accessible. So, if I wanted to, I could
do Let's go back to our F-14A for a
second here. We'll go to the wrong one
from Iran. And here are the details. But
notice the level of detail and depth
this program has. And again, people who
are watching me all the time, this is a
review. For those of you who are new,
this is incredible. It tells me what it
is, how big it is, how big the crew is,
what its weights are, how long it takes
to lock and to destroy something. It
tells me its takeoff landing distance,
climb rate, agility. It's got how
durable it is. It's got Where is the
armor? It's visibility. It has all of
the different sensors on board. We've an
Aug 9, which is Yeah, it's decent. We
have all of these countermeasures. Then
we have all of the different loadouts.
We have communications radios. We have
easy How easy it is to detect different
types of thing We have different types
of fuel consumptions at different
altitudes. Everything is here for all
the units that existed militarily.
Honestly, you could buy this game just
for the database. It's that good kind of
thing. So, what we'll do here is I'll go
ahead and just pick the our little
AIM-54 here just for fun. And we'll
scroll down. And look at how cool this
is. I can actually come here and hit
this. And it will tell me everything
about this radar. And obviously, it's
not going to tell me how far it can see
a MiG-29, for example. That depends on
the math. But what does it tell me? It
tells me how many targets it can
eliminate. Gives me an idea of the
generation. It tells me what kind of
information I can have. Tells me how
often it updates, basically. It has its
range. And one of the cool things is the
back on our F-14, it even shows how
tight the nose is on this. Now, notice
here, my search arc is much, much
tighter than my wide arc. DCS fans,
you're screaming at me going, "No, no, I
can make it to us. Let me do an
eight-bar scan or something like that."
Don't worry about it. It doesn't matter
kind of a thing like that. It's just
like I said, absolutely fantastic.
So, let's go ahead and uh stack the deck
a little bit here. So, we're going to go
back to our airport here. Uh control F6,
by the way, if all you're kind of
following along with this mission as we
go. So, we'll go grab it. Um let's see,
1980. We'll
We'll stack the deck a bit here. And uh
we'll do 12 here. Uh call sign
Um what was it from the movie? I can't
remember the movie. It was a Hot Shots
apart Yeah. Yeah,
it had all the different like uh we can
do Baba
Kanoosh or something. I don't know. I
feel like there's something wrong about
that. Um
uh we'll just leave it. We'll make it
automatically generate one of these. And
of course, it adds it on here. And one
of the cool things is if you swing back
to our screen here, you can actually see
how there's this little icon that tells
us that we actually have uh people at
this particular shelter. So, if I click
on this one right now and actually hit
edit aircraft, that is the aircraft at
that specific shelter. Now, there are
people out there who actually like to
come in here and edit all of these
individually and put individual
airplanes in individual shelters,
go for it. Um again, by the way, you
have to press the nine key on your
numpad to switch between group mode and
not group mode, cuz otherwise, you won't
be able to select them as you can kind
of see right there. So, it's it's up to
you. Again, for our simplicity's sake,
we're going to do that. We'll go ahead
and add in some more juicy targets here.
Um because we have F-14s, we'll do some
F-4Es, cuz uh why not? Uh upgraded
Project Iran. Well, it's after 2015, so
we'll go through 24 of those on there.
Uh what else should we do? We should add
some uh What's What do I want to do?
Tu-16s? Oh, again, let's see what we can
throw in here. We'll throw a whole bunch
604 of them. So, let's add 10. Uh why
not? And you know what? Just for color,
we'll go through some money. I think
they had the Hind E. No, no, no. They
had Cobras. What am I saying?
Of course, I'm forgetting my own
countries here. That's embarrassing.
Let's see, Iran 2022 2013. That looks
pretty good. Toufan. That looks pretty
good. We'll add 12 of those, too.
Now that we have a little bit of a stuff
populating our airfields here, uh we're
giving ourselves a plenty of juicy
targets for the purposes of actually,
you know, engaging, which is what we're
going to start doing in a minute. So,
I'm going to go ahead and tap the F6 key
on the keyboard. And that's going to
bring up a list. This is what you would
see, by the way, if you're in a
conventional mode, where you'd have the
ability to basically see like if you're
playing the scenario not in editor mode,
this is what you would see. But one of
the things you'll notice is all these
aircraft are red right now. And the
reason for that is they're telling us,
"I've got no loadout, and I'm just
parked." So, if I took this aircraft and
hit launch individually, uh uh nothing
would happen because unfortunately, it
doesn't have anything. It doesn't have a
job yet. So, what we can do is we can
actually come down here, you know, we
can actually change what it is. You
know, I can right-click on this, and you
can ready arm it. Um go ahead and change
the different items. So, what I like to
do is actually like to hold down the
shift key, and I can arm them all in one
whack here. So, I'm going to press ready
arm. Now, you're going to notice that
all of these loadouts right now are all
italicized. Uh the reason for that is
because the fact that we don't actually
have any of these different items
available. Now, one of the things that
they simulate really well in Command is
logistics. And there are no missiles
anywhere in this place that they can
actually draw from. And if we wanted to,
and I'll show you how like again, how
sophisticated you can get very quickly
here. I can see here, let's see here,
AIM-9D 7Es. I can come up here and say,
"Okay, that's 181 is the AIM-70s
AIM-70." Don't forget AIM-7A.
Let's see here. I'll go ahead and close
this real quick. I mean, you need to go
find the ammo facility here, ammo
shelter. So, I can actually go here,
edit it, and I can actually edit what's
inside of it. So, I could come in here,
and I could say add some weapon, filter
by keywords, and I can actually say
AIM-7E. Ooh, oops if you type it in
correctly.
AIM-7E, and I could add, I don't know,
1,000 of these if I wanted. You got to
be careful. Make sure you get the right
one here. So, let's add um I don't know.
I'd
uh I don't know, 10,000. Why not? That's
an awful lot of those, but too bad.
Let's add 50.
Now, watch what happens when I go like
this. Click on F6. If I were to go back
to this one and hit ready arm, you'll
notice the fact Ta-da! It actually
recognizes the fact there it is.
Uh sure, lad. Now, if you could give me
a rough detail of what you're interested
in, I might be able to help you out with
a little bit. But uh for our purposes,
obviously, this would be quite a pain in
the butt to go through and have to load
those magazines. So, one of the things
they do for you, which Thank you, people
at Command, for making our lives easier.
So, we can actually go up to the
magazines. And when we add the different
weapons and stuff like that, we can say
only show weapons compatible with the
aircraft that exist here. This is
awesome because it's only going to give
us the different weapons that you can
actually get at this airfield. Now, I
know some people are like, "Well, can
you do one of these things where you go
like that, hold down shift, and go like
that?" No.
You're going to have to actually still
go through, click this one at 100, click
this one at 100. Uh the other method, of
course, you can use, and again, for
people who are not familiar with this
game, is you can go up to editor, you
can go up to scenario settings, and you
can actually press okay there. You can
actually tell it you have unlimited
ammo. And uh the nice thing with that,
of course, is you have unlimited ammo.
The downside is now the Iranians have,
you know, anti-ship missiles, you have
nuclear weapons. Maybe you don't want to
press that button. Now, you want to be
very careful with some of these, by the
way. We're actually going to leave that
one off. Communications disruption, that
works fine for me. So, now if we go back
to the airfield, hit the F6 key again,
you'll notice when I go to ready arm,
all of these are available. So, again,
for the purpose of our scenario, we're
going to shoot up this airfield real
nice and prevent them from taking off.
So, what I'm going to do is I'm just
going to select all of them. Again, I
held down the shift key. Ready arm, and
we'll go ahead and put them some nice
yummy things here. Uh
this looks cool. I like that. Let's do
that. Press that button, and you can see
they're all now green. They're ready for
launch. Let's grab our handy-dandy our
AH-1s. And we're going to assume these
guys are basically equipped for reserve.
You know, they're just training
exercises kind of a thing like that. So,
we'll leave them like that. Actually,
not reserve. We'll actually set them to
be ferry, so they carry plenty of fuel.
So, they're nice tasty targets for us.
Grab our F-14s here. We'll go ahead and
load them up all sorts of yummy stuff,
too.
Look at this. A Hawk missile. Yes, a
Hawk. So, we'll go ahead and uh throw
that on there as well. Minimize that.
We'll go to our Tu-16s here. Grab them
all, and we're going to order them to be
maintenance. Now, the interesting thing
is people always ask me, "Why would you
ever, ever use the maintenance loadout?"
Cuz it takes the aircraft out of the
availability pile. The reason you do
this is to have targets, if you're ever
kind of wondering. It's also a great
simulation of some of the things you'll
actually see in a real airfield. You'd
never have this many aircraft ready to
go. But I need to give the F-35
something to shoot at. So,
that's why we have that many aircraft
there. So, my airport is uh pretty much
ready to go. Our targets ready to rock.
Uh we definitely want to consider some
kind of defense, though. I don't want to
leave this one all alone. Uh when we
show up with a bunch of cruise missiles
in a little while and actually smoosh
this thing, we want to make sure that uh
we're kind of ready to go.
So, what I'm going to do is I Cuz since
I'm in map editor mode, I have this
ability. If you weren't a map editor,
you'd have to do these things manually.
I'm going to press insert. I'm going to
go find a nice little hill nearby and go
ahead and click. A real quick pro tip,
by the way, uh if you actually go up to
view, and there's this great thing that
says uh relief. If you go to relief
layer, it shows you where all the hills
are. Now, the reason this is so super
cool is uh like I say, I'm planning a
strike or something like that. Oh,
obviously, come down here and come
around kind of a thing, which is what
we'll do with the cruise missiles. But
for me, who is planning, "Oh, where am I
going to put my early warning radar?"
Haha, of course, it's going to go over
here kind of a thing like that on the
absolute highest point. And that looks
pretty good right there. Go over to the
facility real fast. We'll get ourselves
an early warning radar here. Um I'm a
huge fan of the tips. Everybody knows
that. But um we'll go ahead and use
something a little more Iranian here,
here. Let's see here. Scroll down. We're
just going to get ourselves a new W
radar. New W radar. And again, if we
want to find more facts about it, we can
click any I dog ear. Oh my god, they're
there again. Spoon rest. Eh, I want
something a little bit bigger here. TRS
of Olex is actually pretty good. Let's
just see what we have for this one. I
want something a little bit bigger.
Olex X. What do we got? 145. That's not
bad. We can work with that. And then we
also have a TRS. This is actually an SSM
radar. Uh oh my gosh, that one looks a
little more modern. What do we got here?
275. Yeah, that's what I call an early
warning radar. Let's go and press that
one real quick.
Now, one of the things that uh shock
people when it comes to a Command is,
believe it or not, after I place a unit,
it doesn't just start turning a radar on
and uh looking around. That's just not
how it works. We can actually instruct
it to turn itself on. So, what we can do
is after selecting it, if you come over
here, you're actually going to notice
there's some controls over here that
gives us direct control of that unit.
These controls are also going to be
available if you're playing in regular
single player without being in map
editor mode. But what they basically
will do is give you the ability to turn
stuff on and off. So, if I actually
would come over here to the sensors
window, for example, you can see that it
says MCON. That's just emissions
control. If I say no, ignore, you'll
notice I now have the ability to turn
individual things on. Like, for example,
I can come over here and turn on the
radar. If I want to be lazy, I can click
this little checkbox here, which turns
on all the radars. Now, the reason that
could be useful, of course, is we want
to see things. The reason it's not
useful, as you'll see in a minute, is
we're going to blow it up because it
turned itself on. But, if you actually
zoom out a little bit, you can see just
how wide of this is going to have. It's
not going to make any difference.
There's going to be a bunch of F-35s
knocking on the door anyway. And, of
course, there's the identification
problem, so we'll have to deal with that
a little bit later on. So, let's go
ahead and shut off that. It's going to
make me absolutely crazy. And we'll add
a little bit more defense here. So, what
I'm going to do now is I'm going to toss
up an SA-5, which has a staggering range
on it. Uh for those of you not familiar
with this one, it it's excessive. Like,
uh if I click on it real quickly,
that's its range. Now, keep in mind, uh
this is one of those things that
surprise people with Command, that just
because it's in range doesn't mean it
can hit it. As a matter of fact, uh one
of the things you're going to see when
this weapon, if it gets actually any
action, I have a feeling my like the
F-35s will come steamroll that thing.
But, the reality is is um you can't
necessarily hit something that's inside
of this arc. Uh for example, if I take
my little airplane and duck behind this
mountain, guess what? That missile will
self-destruct. If I'm trying to take
potshots at people over here in Dubai, I
I just hide behind the stuff in Qatar
here and I'm gone. Uh they can't do
anything for me. Likewise, I could just
outmaneuver the weapon. I could
basically turn around and fly away from
it. It couldn't keep up with me. All
those things are possibilities, and
they're all accurately simulated when so
we start getting into the shenanigans
and goings-on. Now, one of the things I
had mentioned earlier was the fact that
this guy right here is a early warning
radar, and this SA-5 here has its own
ability to turn its sensors on. Inside
of Command, the units are smart enough
to know not to turn their radars on
unless they absolutely are ready to
start shooting. But, one of the things
we could actually do if we wanted to is
we could come in here and activate its
battalion radar. And this is basically
going to represent its kind of organic
sensing capability. I'm actually not
going to do that. And uh the reason I
don't want to do that is I have an early
warning radar that will give this guy a
good heads-up whether or not he needs to
be operable and start shooting at
things. It's very, very tempting to
activate his radar, but if we do that,
we're just giving away what he is. Uh
one of the things I see players do to
kind of add a nice little layer of
complexity to it is what they'll do is
they'll grab a P-50 radar and they'll
put it somewhere else, or they'll grab a
square pair and they'll put it somewhere
else. Square pair, by the way, is
gigantic. Uh actually, I'm hoping you
can see a picture of this. I don't think
they're going to give us a picture of
the square pair, but believe me when I
say that thing is huge.
Uh they got to give me a square pair.
Ah, I don't have the square pair. So,
let's go ahead and put a P-50 in here.
Humbug, I say. Humbug. So, it looks to
me. Oh, it's riveted this way. Let's
see, do you get anything? Do we get
anything?
Do I get anything? Ah, there we go. So,
if I do P- uh
we do a P-19 and fake it. Yeah, let's do
a P-20 or P-90 or something like that
and fake it. So, I'm actually going to
grab this a long track. That's uh
Iranian defense. And we're going to
pretend that that radar is actually our
radar. So, check it out cool this is. I
can come in here and say, "Hey, give me
a P-40."
Head down to Iran real quick.
And then I can take this unit, rename
it, instead of a P-40, I could rename it
a P-50. Press okay. And then what I
could do is I could actually change the
sensors on board of this to simulate as
if it was the actual P-50 that we have
over here. So, by clicking this real
quick, I could actually come over to
sensors. You can see I got long track. I
can actually shut that off, click on it,
remove the sensor. Keep in mind, you
can't do this in regular. Add sensor,
and now I can actually grab that other
radar. Even set the arcs and everything
like that. So, if I come here and say
P-50, tada! There's my Bar Lock C.
Just like that. So, now if I flip this
thing on, uh anytime they're doing ESM
work, they will automatically be picking
up this radar, even though it's not
coming from this battery. And again,
those are little teeny, tiny details
that us scenario designers really love
to throw in to make things a little more
complicated for the other player who's
trying to come back here and kind of
smoosh all this stuff, which like I
said, don't worry, we'll get to that. Uh
we want a couple more surprises, of
course. I'm just going to press the I on
my numpad there. I'm going to go ahead
and add a couple more. Um you got to
have a Rapier. It's just it's it's it's
required, if I can spell it correctly. I
love how they said it's no longer a
missile, it's a hittle because it's uh
so capable kind of a thing like that.
There's one right there. It's a
blindfire, which means it's the radar
version. This is going to give us a
really fun surprise later on. I'm not
going to turn the sensors on. I'll just
let it fire when my F-35 gets too close.
It's going to happen, you know, it's
just kind of the nature of the beast, so
to speak. So, I'll leave that right
there. I'm perfectly fine with that.
And, of course, uh you can't have
anything without having a little bit of
surprise, so we'll go ahead and throw in
an SA-14, too. Which is basically uh you
know, some guy with a little rocket
launcher on his shoulder.
That'd be funny if this is the thing
that taps the F-35. I would have quite a
smile on my face there. So, grab that
one. I'll go ahead and copy and paste
one of the other one. This basically
represents the guy getting angry and
running out of his little jeep kind of
thing, "What are you doing?" and popping
one of those in the air. Uh one more
thing, of course, I will do is I'm just
going to come over here. A quick tip, by
the way, if you hold your mouse over the
shore, when it says depth, it means you
can't put ground units in it, even
though it looks like it's on ground.
Like, you zoom in, see how this looks
like earth? It's not. It's because the
map is separate from the actual height
map. So, if I bring my mouse right here,
we'll go ahead and put an observation
post in there.
I like that. Um
observation post. Uh we'll just do a
little tiny one. And the nice thing here
is you can take the smallest observer.
Oh my god, that's a real observation
post. And one of the things I like to do
as a programmer here, as a designer of
scenarios, is I always come in here and
throw in some kind of generic uh LLTV.
So, basically, you're simulating a night
vision goggles. Like, if I type in night
vision. Yeah, there we go. So, we can do
um second generation night vision
goggles. Go ahead and toss those in. The
nice advantage here is if it is
nighttime, they have a slightly easier
time of seeing aircraft. It also makes
it easier for them to identify incoming
enemy aircraft, which they kind of need
to do so they can start popping things
up at you. Now, a couple more things I'm
going to add to our scenario just have a
little bit of fun. We'll go ahead and
throw up a couple ships here.
Let's see here. We'll do a surface ship.
Uh they've got all sorts of PCFGs and
stuff like that. We'll go ahead and grab
a couple of those. Again, the insert key
is your magic button there. Uh
there's the Bender a Boss right there.
There's actually two of them on 1974.
These things are kind of small, if I
recall correctly. Uh
108. Oh, take it back. That's pretty
big.
We'll keep it. Uh what's it packing
here? We have a 20 mm and we have a 23
mm. That's
uh not great. Uh we're going to need
something with a little more severity
here.
Uh here we go. Sea Killer replaced with
C-802s. Nice. Anti-ship ship. Oh, by the
way, if you have an issue where all your
ranges are starting to kind of merge
into each other, um all you have to do
is go to map settings and set this to
selected unit, and it will only show you
the ranges of the thing you're clicking
on, so they're not all kind of going all
over the place on each other. If you're
playing like a really, really big
scenario, it gets ridiculous how um
crazy that can get on you. So, anyway,
I'm going to go ahead and uh set myself
up a generic little pattern in this way.
Uh set them to nice and slow. Again, you
can control the actual speed of the
units. Like, if I wanted to be weird, I
could come in here and say, "You, go 11
knots."
He'll do it because I told him to. And
again, if you need this level of
fidelity, you need this granularity,
it's available. If not, you could be
like me and come over here say, "Just uh
screw go cruising. Just do your thing."
Now, one thing we do though is um again,
for a little bit, not necessarily
realism, but just one of those kind of
little details, is you can come in here,
shut off the MCON again, and we can
actually find the DECCA. Now, for those
of you who are not sure what a DECCA is,
it's it's like this little kind of, you
know, civilian radar thing. And one of
the reasons I like it is because of the
fact that it shows up as a civilian
radar. So, when we're doing our
reconnaissance a little later on, of
course, so we'll know exactly, "Oh, it's
a civilian vessel. We have to get closer
to identify. Oh, it's a military vessel.
We got to be careful." kind of a thing
like that.
So, I'm pretty happy with this side. I'm
not going to go uh too too crazy here
because um the details we'll see a
little bit later on are going to be sort
of centered around, you know, how do you
disable this airfield efficiently? And
uh we're going to kind of do that part
next. So, what I'm going to do now is um
I'm happy. I'm going to do my quick
little save as. And we'll go save it as
a scenario here. And of course, I always
name my initial scenarios the same
thing, and then I go rename them later.
I don't know how many copies of that
file I have. I don't want to know. So,
now we're going to switch over to the
other side here so we can start, you
know, kind of planning our little
strategy here. So, I'm going to select
all. We're going to go over to NATO. And
uh whoop, NATO. Notice, by the way, all
the graphics got all kind of
silly-looking. That's because when you
switch sides, it resets this. I don't
know why it does that. I kind of wish it
didn't do that. And
you know, I always like to joke about
Uncle Demetrius there, you know, when
he's watching and listening kind of a
thing like that. But, it's like, can we
have drawing tools one, and uh number
two, can we have it keep it? You know
what I mean. Anyway. So, what I'm going
to do now is we're going to go ahead and
get our allies set up, and we're going
to do a couple different things here. Uh
we're going to be interested, of course,
in demonstrating some of the different
weapon systems we have at our disposal,
as well as, you know, kind of some of
the
What's the best way you know, a little
bit of strategy. Again, we're trying to
keep these really basic for today, for
people who have not had an opportunity
to play or not sure what this game's all
about. So, we're going to go down here.
Uh we've got our, you know, Dubai. Of
course, we have Qatar and all that
stuff. I'm going to go up to editor, and
um instead of actually adding a
pieces in, what I'm going to do instead
is I'm going to switch over to topo
mode, which is going to cause all sorts
of uh nasty graphics to sort of I mean,
look at this. This feels like a Windows
95 GPS application kind of a thing like
that. And the reason I'm doing that is
because it actually highlights all the
no-fly zones, which I think is kind of
cool. And uh the reason I want that is
because I want to basically, if I can
get zoomed in enough without You're
going to get this happening, by the way.
You are at the mercy of the speed of the
servers. You know, I have a 2-gigabit
line coming into my house right now, and
that still happens. But, now if I zoom
in a little bit, tada! We have ourselves
our airfield that we're going to be
operating on of today. Now, some people
are going to be sitting here saying, "Um
so, could you go ahead and go do your
load instant thing like you did
earlier?" I'm not going to do that. You
know, coming from a scenario designer
who's I've literally played this game
for 5, 6 years now. Uh you don't want to
do that if you don't have to. So,
instead, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to first of all, check to make
sure I'm on NATO side here. I'm going to
press the insert key, click somewhere in
the middle of the base, and I'm going to
insert a unit that is a single unit
airfield. So, if I do single unit, woo!
S I N You know what? I'm just going to
do it the easy way. Switch off Iran
here. That probably would help. Type in
airfield.
Apparently, it's still on Iran mode
here. Go away. So, we have a bunch of
different airfields here. Um you can see
the different lengths, different number
of the two x just refers to runway. And
if these things and people are like,
"Well, how do you know how long the
runway is?" It's actually pretty easy.
You press control D and you just go
ahead measure it. You can see here that
it is two nautical miles. And now,
people are always like, "What is two
nautical miles? What does that even
mean?" Uh, two nautical miles just
multiply by two and now, you'll be close
enough as far as your airfield length
goes. So, a two nautical miles, that's a
really, really, really long runway. So,
again, that's one of those little things
that you get. It's going to be about
3,200 m is what it comes out to be. And
now, I'm looking closely and I can see
that we have That's a standard runway.
It looks like a runway grade. Taxi. Too
bad. I'm just going to do a 1x 3,200
Now, the other thing I like to do, too,
is after defining this, let me go ahead
and hide all this junk that you don't
actually hold on to it, is we have to
tell it what direction the runway's
pointing. And uh, the easiest way to do
that, again, is if you press control D
and you just drag the line. You know,
it's hard to see. I can see that this
angle right here Oh my god, as if I can
see what that angle is right now.
Oh my gosh.
I've got I wish I had a little shadow.
That's 390°. So, it's runway 31. So, if
I actually were to come over to this,
right click on it, scenario editor, I
can actually sit in here and define the
correct angle that the uh runway's
actually coming at. Keep in mind,
runways airplanes always take off in
that direction no matter what the
{finger quote} wind is. So, they're
always going to be going that way. So,
let's go ahead and now hide that real
quick cuz uh, it's slowly burning my
eyeballs out here. And we have our
airport and I'll say airbase. We'll keep
it nice and simple like I said. I'm not
going to do anything too too
complicated. I just don't need to for
the purposes of it. Oh, one thing I like
to recommend also is that if you right
click on this and I go ahead and head
over to scenario editor, shut the auto
detect ability of this off. Uh, the
reason I say that is because uh, one of
the downsides to this being a unit is
that it'll appear in the other guys'
targeting scopes and if they have
nuclear weapons and they're set on just
shoot things, you end up with a bunch of
ICBMs uh, raining down on your, you
know, little airbase. And the other
thing, of course, is saying is how come
we can't see any of the other guys'
stuff? Uh, the reason we can't is cuz we
haven't run the scenario yet. You can
always press control V, by the way, to
switch to God's eye view and you can
kind of see clearly how it's all kind of
spread around.
All right. So, the process here is going
to be exactly the same as it was in the
other side. We're actually going to have
two different forces we're going to be
working together with on this mission
today. Uh, we're going to have an Air
Force component and of course, we're
going to have a naval component helping
us out as well. So, I'm going to put the
naval component into place first. I'm
going to press the insert key, click
right there. Go ahead and click on
submarine and of course, which one do
you think I was going to use? I'm going
to grab myself the SSGN Ohio here. The
Michigan's kind of fun cuz it has
something called IRPCS. For you those of
you who are not familiar with this, it's
a ballistic missile. It's an HTV, a
hypersonic glide vessel. It's fast uh,
vehicle. By the way, not vessel. So,
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
grab this one.
Press okay. And if I click on this, uh,
you'll notice it carries not one, not
17, 154
Tomahawk cruise missiles, which um, it
could win the scenario on its own, to be
honest. And uh, what I have to actually
do is I'm going to click on this guy
real quick, click on WRA and I'm
actually going to order him not to do
that because if he does, he's going to
ruin all the fun before I can have any
fun myself. So, I'm actually going to
tell him to hold fire. I'm going to
forget that I told him to hold fire, but
um, if I don't do this, he's just going
to go, "Woo, target!" and just basically
drop a deck of cruise missiles into our
target. But, the F-35s gets dibs. So,
you go sit there and you relax, Mr.
SSGN. All right. So, let's go ahead and
get some stuff at our airbase. I'm going
here and press control F6 again. Uh, we
need a couple things to help us out
here. Uh, one thing is I love to get
some AWACS action. So, uh, we'll go
ahead grab ourselves an E-3. If you're
not sure what a E-3 we have, uh, Saudi
Arabia is right there. We could borrow
theirs. We could also borrow, you know,
an American version. We could borrow a
French version. This is supposed to be a
NATO operation here. So, I'm actually
going to grab the E-3 here. Uh, we're
going to grab two of them.
I'm going the F6 key. I'm going to grab
this Cohog one. Yeah, that makes sense.
Oh, come on. We'll fix that in a second,
but I'm just going to go up and give
them a quick mission. Uh, quick, by the
way, is simply saying that if I have to
land in a hurry, just refuel me, get me
back in the air air one more time.
Otherwise, you're looking at like a 6 to
9-hour turnaround time for some of these
planes. So, uh, I recommend it if you
can. So, he's ready to go. I'm going to
rename him real quick just for my own
sanity. Uh, rename. This is going to be
eyeball
11. Uh, we'll do 1-1. We'll do a
hardcore DCS here. We'll come over here,
rename. This will be eyeball 1-2. Just
so I can keep them apart as I need it.
Um, so we need some escorts for these
guys. I'm not just going to send up
these extremely expensive planes. Oh, by
the way, remember I had the SA-5? Uh,
yeah, that's going to be in range. So,
we're going to have to deal with that
before we can actually launch them.
We'll deal with it, don't worry. So,
I'll press my control F6 again. We'll go
ahead and get some escorts here. It is
uh, we'll get some uh, F-35s here.
Actually, what I'm going to do
Let me see if I can just type in
lightning here and I should be able to
get the one that I want. Ah, here it is.
Bingo. Whoop, that's the wrong
lightning. That'd be fun to bring out
one of those, don't you think?
All right. Let me actually we'll try the
regular F-35 here. I believe I'm trying
to think the UK gets them. Okay, they
get the spear version, they get the Bs
and they also get the As, I believe.
Here we go. Nice. F-35A, United Kingdom
Royal Air Force. Sweet.
Um, what's a really, really British
thing? Uh,
chicken No, I'm not going to do that.
So, we'll go ahead and say how many of
these we want. We'll do 12 and they're
F-35s. I'm not going to need a lot of
these. So, go grab them. We're going to
arm all of them. Nowhere in the universe
will we have all 12 of these available
for an actual mission. But, again, for
the purposes of this, we're going to do
it. It's ready arm. We've got plenty of
yummy things that we can carry here.
We've got all these uh, AMRAAMs. We have
some ASRAAMs. We have some internals. We
have some ASRAAMs. All these different
unit tools. And of course, conveniently,
we also have the ability to carry a
pair. Two. A pair is two of these uh,
lovely Mark 82 bombs, which are awesome.
So, I'm actually going to ready those
immediately and now, we're ready to go.
These guys are not really equipped for
air-to-air. You can see right now it's a
C5 and you got the Paveway Mark IV. This
is great and it's going to dent up that
runway beautifully, which don't worry,
we'll have them do it, but they're not
really going to be much of a sweeping
aircraft here.
So, what I'm going to do instead is I'm
also going to add some more. Let's go
ahead and give myself something.
That'll do it. Let's see, the F-15EX,
which could be a very fun, very amusing
aircraft for this purpose, but we're
having fun. So, let's go all out here.
So, I'm going to grab myself an F-22
because I can. Uh, let's see here. GBU
small diameter bomb. It's like cheating.
So, uh, let's see here. How can we
really unfairly stack this deck here? We
lose the HMCS. Oh, that's disappointing.
We have link 16. Man, these are
fantastic versions of this aircraft.
Honestly, I need four of these would be
probably enough to win this scenario,
but I'm just demonstrating how you can
stack the deck here. F-22s, we'll grab
them all. Ready arm. And we'll make sure
these guys are ready to rock here. So,
standard internal gets us Look at how
many missiles this thing carries. And of
course, if we want to, we can get the
AIM-9X 3s, which
it's not fair. These things are so not
fair. And now, you'll see what I mean
when we actually get to the engagement
here. So, these guys are good. That's
plenty of aircraft. I don't don't need
any more than that. So, the one thing
else we of course want to do is we want
to grab ourselves a little bit of some
carrier operations here, too, because
why not? So, I'm going to hit insert
again. We'll get ourselves an aircraft
carrier. Let's see here. Surface ship.
Let's see here. We'll do CVN. Which one
do we want today? Which one do we want
today?
Oh, we'll do the John Stennis. That's a
pretty easy one. He's looking pretty
happy. He's not carrying anybody right
now. And because I'm a jerk, we'll put
some F-35s on him, too.
This is just not fair.
Let's see here. 2019. I like that.
We'll do 12 again. Oh my god, that's 21.
That's way too many.
I didn't say this scenario was designed
to be balanced. I said this scenario is
to demonstrate the capabilities of the
program.
Uh, let's see here. So, we have JSOWs,
which are great. Uh, let's see. JSOWs,
we'll do internal ones. JSOWs are
basically, if you haven't seen one of
these things, it's a giant box with
wing. Yeah, there it goes. And it
basically what it will do is I'll
release this thing and it just sort of
glides very, very long distances. The
interesting thing here is Let me see if
I can find it for you.
Uh, yeah, here it is. Notice it's barely
detectable by radar. And uh, that's
going to be important for us cuz we're
going to use these guys basically to
dent stuff up. These other items here
that are really, really good, too, like
the GBU-31s, they work great, but they
just don't have the reach.
Go ahead and add that. And now, we're
ready to go. I think everything we could
possibly need for this scenario has been
equipped. Uh, some of you, of course,
are like, uh, "Shouldn't this guy get an
escort?"
You guys just want everything. So, we'll
go ahead and uh, stack the deck some
harder. We'll add the Zumwalt here. Uh,
SM-2. I like that. Go ahead and grab
that version. Uh, this will be the
escort and you can see it's not the
longest range. It's not really the best
carrier escort out there, but I'm not
worried about that at all. So, let's go
ahead and group those two guys. We're
going to order them to kind of do a
little one of these sort of things here
in a little box. And again, we don't
have to do that much. We'll set these
guys to creep speed and uh, let me check
check to make sure that this is working
properly. Now, it is. And uh, one thing
we will do is we will have the Zumwalt
help us out with radar just to kind of
act as sort of like an early sort of
AWACS thing. So, again, going to go over
to sensors here. Radars, we can turn
them all on. Not needed. Honestly, just
turn on the N spy here and that will be
plenty. So, if I actually zoom out a
little bit, you can see that this is his
radar coverage here, which is absolutely
fantastic. He'll be able to keep more
than enough eye on things before we can
get the E-8 in the air. Now, there's
something you have to remember here is
that we do have that E-8 at our
disposal, but the moment we launch it,
it's going to get shot down by an SA-5
and we're all going to feel really
stupid about it cuz that was an
expensive plane to get cheap shot by,
you know, a 1960s surface-to-air missile
system.
So, let's go ahead and uh, save our
scenario and now, we're ready to
actually begin the execution sequence
here. So, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to play
and I'm going to wait a few moments and
pause again. And what you'll observe is
the fact that all these items have
suddenly appeared on the screen. And
now, one of the things you have to do,
of course, See how 1 second has passed?
You have to actually go back up here and
I just change this like that. Press
okay. Save it again. And now, our
scenario is ready to rock. Now, this is
where a lot of people who play Command
uh, start to get a little lost in uh,
the minutiae, sort of kind of the
details, what I sort of would like to
call. How does one strike an airfield
that is uh, well protected by enemy
radars, including the ones we can't see?
Well, the first things first, you have
to know they're there in order to engage
them. By the way, we never actually set
the weather. So, let's take a couple
moments here to establish the weather.
Hey, this is a Persian Gulf. It's a
little warm.
Oh, we'll go ahead and put some clouds
in the sky. What is that? It's actually
really bad clouds. Let's try that cloud.
I like that. It's pretty good. We'll
make it a little windy, not too windy
here. Go ahead and save that. And again,
this is what I love about this program.
I could just do this. So now what I'm
going to do is that we're going to plan
our strike here.
And as what anything, you have to define
what you're trying to achieve before you
try to achieve it, that way you know
whether or not you didn't achieve it.
And the key thing here is we want to
[&nbsp;__&nbsp;] this airfield. We want to
prevent it from launching any aircraft
whatsoever at any time. So in order to
do something like that, we're going to
have to target the part of the airfield
that it is most vulnerable at. And as
for those of you who are veterans of
this, we know exactly what the
vulnerable part is. And that's the
access point of the runway. So what an
access point does is just like you can
see here, that's going to be this little
guy that allows the airplanes to
actually taxi on the runway and go. Many
people are like, "I got an idea. Let's
just shoot up the runway." Let me show
you why that doesn't work. If I scroll
down here, you're actually going to
notice that the runway access point has
1,000 damage points, and if I recall, it
has no general armor. Now if we take
that knowledge and now we take a look at
the runway itself, let's see if I can
find the actual runway here.
Ah, there's the runway. Let's take a
look at the runway. The runway on the
flip side has, let's see here, 1,400
damage points and massive heavy armor.
That means if we want to start
Tomahawking this thing, it's going to
take 25 Tomahawks and then they're just
going to repair it anyway. Whereas if we
want to go ahead and shoot up the access
points, which are completely unarmored,
if you actually go back and look at the
Tomahawk missile, let me go pull one of
these up so you can see just how much
damage this thing can cause. Do do do do
do. It's such an old picture. But if you
come down here, you'll see that it
actually does, let's see here, we want
to get its elbow 311.
Three, four Tomahawks basically will
[&nbsp;__&nbsp;] an access point, but it will
take probably 25 to [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] a runway.
Start to see where we're going with
this? So what we're going to do to kind
of kick everything off here is we're
going to [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] the runways. So I'm
going to go ahead and press the click on
my little handy dandy sub here. I'm
going to press shift F1, and then what
I'm going to do is I'm going to click on
the airport.
What that will do is that will bring up
a little screen that looks like this.
And that will allow me to manually
target the targets. Remember I told him
to hold fire because I didn't want him
to like waste 25 billion dollars worth
of taxpayer money. So what I'm going to
do is I'm going to find all the access
points here. Watch how simple this is.
I'm just going to scroll down here.
Runway access points. You're sitting
here going, "Oh, you have to get all
each one of these individually." No, no,
don't waste time.
Click on the first one.
Hold shift. Click on the last one.
Click on the Tomahawk, and now you can
select how many you want.
That'll do it. So all we have to do now
is press this button right here, and
we've automatically allocated 32
Tomahawks. Some of you sharp-eyed
viewers immediately say, "Wait a minute,
didn't you just say it would only take
24 to kill the runway?"
Shut up.
Of course, the real world we'd also be
thing interested in things like the ammo
bunkers, we target their fuel. Fuel
doesn't matter right now. A lot of
scenarios require you to hit the fuel
tanks for points, but we're defining our
own scenario here, so it doesn't matter.
That should do it. That'll definitely
inconvenience those Tomahawks to say the
least. Now the other problem we're going
to face, of course, is I've got my
scenario paused right now. This thing's
going to fire basically a conga line of
those Tomahawks directly at our target
here. The problem we're going to face is
that our SAM systems, remember we had a
Rapier here, is going to start going
nutters and taking pot shots at those
Tomahawks cuz believe it or not,
Tomahawk is it's pretty easy to see. If
you actually click on it, it's going to
sound dumb, but the thing is basically a
stupid straight line airplane. You can
see it actually has this very, very tiny
nose that is completely detectable by
enemy radar, especially if it's coming
at it. So we have to keep these SA-5s
either completely out of commission or
we're going to have to actually go ahead
and [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] them, destroy them. So now
it's time to put everybody to work here.
So if you recall, we have J SAWs. And
Jojo one, I like that. So what I'm going
to do is I'm going to press control F11.
I'm going to go ahead and give ourselves
a name. I'm going to call it C indeed.
And these guys are going to be
responsible for basically destroying all
the good stuff before our Tomahawks get
into position. Remember our aircraft are
going to be a little quicker than our
Tomahawks. I'm going to press okay here.
It's going to yell at me and say you
need a reference point. That's easy.
Control, right click.
Draw area. Drag a box.
Sure.
Uh, target zone.
Press the okay key. And now you can see
this area is nice and highlighted. I
press okay, and it's happy. It'll work.
So this is going to be my kind of kill
box is another way to think about it.
And again, there's more sophisticated
ways to do that, but that could be 100
other videos in the end. This is just
keeping it simple. So we need to find
our group of F-35s that are ready to
rock here, and I have plenty. I'm going
to go ahead and grab them. One of the
biggest mistakes that you can make is
not hitting hard enough. And of course,
a lot of people sit there going, "Oh, so
we'll send two. I mean, it's an F-35, no
problem." We could do that, but then
you're going to be embarrassed when the
SA-5, I kid you not, will shoot down
half of your J SAWs before they get to
the target. So you need to apply a
little bit of force, otherwise they just
reload and they're ready for you next
time. So what we're going to do is that
we're going to launch a pretty hefty
chunk of these. We're not going to
launch them all. You always want to have
a reserve. Remember, you can always add
these to the mission after the mission's
already started. So I'm going to grab
these, press the down arrow. It's going
to shove all these in here. And then all
we have to do is to find a couple
settings. So let's see here. We have
eight units going on the ride here.
Flight size of two makes no sense in my
mind. I'll do a flight size of four. So
it's two flights of F-35s. Fantastic. I
like that. Uh, of course, we can do
things like what time do you want to go
on station, what time do you want to
take off. We can establish all that, but
I'm not going to do any of that today
because I just don't need to. When we do
the big coup de grace on the rest of the
airfield, don't worry, we'll get to
that, but I don't want to do that yet.
Instead, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to check these guys. They're good
to go. The mission's pretty much all
set. Our prosecution looks good, looks
good. M con WRA. We actually want them
to use the radar. And you're sitting
there going, "Why would you leave your
radar? They'll know you're coming."
F-35s are what they call
they have a low probability intercept
radar on board. If you actually click on
this, hit this F-35.
Scrolling down here, I'll see here,
where's our fantastic god radar, the
AN/APG-81. But it's an LPI radar. Right
here. So there's very, very, very little
chance they're actually going to detect
the radar emissions, which means we'll
let me see them and they can't see us.
That sounds perfectly legit to me. So
now we're pretty much ready to get our
scenario started. One thing I will do
want to do is I want to prepare my
follow-up strike. Just want to do some
quick little math here. So 85 nautical
miles, 85, whoops, let's get my
calculator here. Scroll down here. 85
divided by what do we got, about 450 I
think is the cruise speed, times 60 is
going to be an 11-minute flight time
plus 6 minutes, that's going to be 17
minutes before the enemy airfields or I
should say before we're actually able to
destroy the SAMs here. So unfortunately,
that means I can literally take off at
any time, but for the sake of safety,
I'm going to order my rest of my
strikers to begin their takeoff process
a little bit after the fun kind of
starts here. So let's go ahead and now
press control F
Actually, we'll we'll do it
we'll do it properly. So what I'm going
to do is I'm going to zoom in here. By
the way, if this bothers you and you
can't see what you're doing, you can
actually come over here into a map
settings and you can shut this off if it
bothers you. You can actually shut it
off completely if it makes you crazy. So
what I'm going to do is I'm going to go
ahead and press the star What is it? I
always get this one. There it is, star,
asterisk. Go ahead and see what's going
to be useful targets.
My opinion, it's going to be this side
of the airfield. And so what I'm going
to do is I'm just going to drag a box
around it.
Control F11. Let's see mission here.
Damage a boss. Sounds good to me. We'll
do a land strike. Press okay doke. And
now we're going to get everybody else
involved in our little engagement here.
So let's see here. Our takeoff time in
Zulu, let's see, the current time is
3:30. We said what, 17 minutes? So we'll
say our takeoff time is going to be
that'll be 47. So we'll call it 3:50. So
we'll say 03:50:00, and that's going to
be my takeoff time. It's an important
point. Targets, we're going to eliminate
anything that doesn't make sense. So
ammo shelters do not make sense. Control
tower.
Ammo shelters, in the real world these
would be very important, but we're not.
I'm just interested in striking all
their hangars and stuff like that. So
going back to my units here, I'm going
to go ahead and throw a tons and tons of
units into it. We have our F-35As. These
are the ones that we have awaiting for
us. They have the Mark 82s. We're going
to toss all those in the pile down
below. We have the F-35Cs. They're
already busy. That's why they got this
little color. If I click the switch, by
the way, it hides the ones that are
already busy. And now what we can do is
we can grab all the Raptors and we can
use them all to jump into the fight.
Click on the Raptors and we can actually
tell these guys to be escorts. So I'm
going to come in here and mark selected
as escorts, which is going to make all
of these aircraft here basically going
to keep an eye on these and protect
them. So swinging back over to mission
settings, there's so many things you can
do here. I've made plenty of videos on
kind of going through all the different
options that you have at your disposal.
But a couple different things I want to
do here. The first one here is I'm going
to go ahead and say that they were going
to split our attack. We're going to do
multi-access. We're going to make it
nice and painful. We're going to do 30
seconds separation here, and we're going
to do a we'll do a 10 out of 10 20.
That's going to split our flight plan
up. If I were to actually zoom out a
little bit, let me go ahead and see one
of these things. If I were to come down
here to the bottom, hit creator update
flight plans, what it will actually do
is depending on what unit I have
selected, it'll generate a flight plan
for it that will allow you to kind of
see it. One of the things you have to do
is you have to actually set here. The
air unit's not air pointing yet, so we
won't be able to see that, but it will
create this nice little split zigzag
thing to make the intruders have a much,
much tougher time. Another thing that's
really nice, if I go to the ATO, is you
can actually see the takeoff time is set
exactly like I said it was, but it also
gives us an important thing, this is
time over target, which is going to be
8:30, 8:16, which again, if you want to
do the math there, you can actually
calculate that. Again, I've done many,
many videos on sort of the complexity
that this involves, but that works
pretty well.
Now one thing I do want to change
though, it just occurred to me, that our
strikers are British F-35s here. We did
Oh, no, we did. We did. We're good.
That's exactly what I wanted. Three
groups of four will be fine. One thing I
will change though is actually make my
escorts be groups of four as well. It
just seems to make more sense to me.
Let's do four. Of course, when you do
that, we have to you go ahead and update
all of our flight plans because like I
said, now those F-22s are now Yeah, see
I broke them up into the proper size
groups. So this is going to be
fantastic. All right. Wow. So now
there's a one more thing we get to do
and then we get to watch the fireworks
as I like to say, and that's to give our
E-8, our E-3 something to do. So I'm
going to go over here.
Press control F11 control insert,
control insert. And this is going to be
where our E-8, our E-3, I'm going to say
it 10 more times, is basically going to
be doing some donuts uh waiting to see
for things stuff coming up here. So, I'm
going to press control F11 again. We'll
go ahead and call that AWACS. Again,
keeping it super simple for this. We're
going to set this to support, not
patrol. Press okay doke. Grab our two
E-3s, dump this on here. They're ready
to rock. And then of course, what we're
going to do is we're going to change
their takeoff time. You've got to change
the takeoff time because if they take
off early, the stupid SA-5s will shoot
them down. So, we'll come in here and
we'll get them at 4:00. Uh that's
actually pretty fair. If we wanted to be
safer, we could do 3:50, but that will
interfere with the uh British Lightnings
that are going to be taking off at about
the same time. Uh one thing we want to
do here is we're just going to say just
keep one on station. So, that way when
this guy's done with this flight, he's
going to fly back and the other buddy's
going to take off at the same time. Last
thing we want to do is we just want to
pop up here real quick and double-check
to make sure his radar's turned on,
which it isn't because um it's supposed
to be an AWACS plane. It needs to be
able to see.
All right, my friends. It is time. And
this is one of the cool parts about
this. Uh before we do all this
shenanigans though, I'm going to save
because if I broke something terribly,
you want to be able to go back and fix
it. And that's one thing I love the fact
that they do. Uh one more mistake I've
noticed, uh these are do we we don't
actually have Tomahawks in here. Uh we
have Tomahawks. So, our Zumwalt would
have uh joined in in the uh Tomahawk
shenanigans. Um I'd rather him not. So,
uh what I'm actually going to do for him
is I'm going to take the Tomahawks off.
And again, look at how easy this is to
do. I can just come up here, click
weapons. I can go to the PVLS and you
see how he's carrying all these
Tomahawks. Guess what? Not anymore. So,
that takes care of that. And of course,
so we can put in a bunch of uh we can be
fun here. Uh we'll do SM-2s, why not?
And how many do we get? 16 out of 160
out of four is eight is 36, right? Hey,
good math. Good math. All right, let's
come up here. We'll go ahead and I'll
get rid of this one. Oh, I already knew
that was 36 by the way. Oh well. Want to
read about an SM-2? You can now. Go up
to here to change. We'll set that back
to 36. And you can see we're good. If
you're wondering why it's 36 and not 40,
it's cuz the other cells are occupied by
something else. So, now we know he's not
going to go pew pew pew pew pew pew pew
pew pew. And I'm actually uh destroy
anything that comes by. And that is the
sound those uh missiles make when they
launch, by the way. Go ahead and save
one more time.
There's something we have forgotten this
entire time. And that is the fact that
there's no enemy aircraft that are going
to come and say hello. And that's not
fun. So, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to switch back to Iran one more
time here. Press control right click.
Add area. I'm just going to drag myself
a little cap area. Press okay. Call this
uh cap.
Press control F11 one more time. We'll
call this cap. And we'll go ahead and
set this to a patrol. AW's fine for us.
And what we're going to do inside of
this patrol area is we're basically
going to throw everything we've got up
there.
Top set one in. And we'll we'll be fair
here. Uh we'll keep our flight sizes at
uh flight sizes at four. And we're going
to use the 1/3 rule, which just means
only keep 1/3 of the airplane up in the
air at a time. Now, one thing we're
going to change here is we're going to
make it so the transit throttle's a
little quicker. And we're going to make
it so the station throttle's a little
bit quicker, too, cuz uh we want them to
burn fuel to kind of come back and
forth. We're also going to double-check
to make sure the radar's active, which
it is. So, this will keep at any given
time, let's see. That's going to be 12
airplanes in the air at a time. That's a
lot. That's actually in my opinion maybe
a little too much here. So, what I'm
actually going to do is I'm going to say
keep four each because I'd rather not
have, like I said, 12 airplanes buzzing
around here all the time. That's going
to be a lot to shoot out for the F-22s.
And especially that first round of F-35s
that's going to come ripping in. Now,
the important thing is you will get to
see us disable this airfield, so many of
these airplanes will never launch. Let's
do it. All right, switch to the other
side. I love this part. This is uh the
bit where I have to remember to turn on
my audio so you can actually hear the
fireworks of the uh fireworks here. It's
kind of fun. Uh you can see I don't use
sound very often. I don't actually know
what the music sounds like in this game.
Like I know that sounds odd, but I don't
think I've ever actually listened to it.
It's just got to one of those things.
Unpause.
All right. So, a lot of things got to
happen here. Um obviously, the aircraft
have to get themselves in position in
the airfield. I noticed, by the way,
we've already identified the emissions
of that one radar, which doesn't
surprise me.
Uh contact emissions. Uh let's see here.
All the da da That's what I want to say.
That's really honest me thing. So, our
SSGN right now is uh floating his way
up. He's uh got himself up at a pretty
good depth. He's uh basically getting
ready to fire.
And uh I I forgot to turn my volume down
from last time.
So, off go the fireworks. And uh one of
the fun things to see here is if I
actually switch over to a 3D view.
Let's go ahead and do this. I'll go
ahead and click on this uh one missile
here. And you can watch them actually
come uh gushing gushing uh directly out
of our little sub here. And one thing I
really love, too, is you click on the
actual sub, you can see that he's just
chilling. Just kind of doing his thing.
And the only missiles you actually see
are going to be the ones that are
already out of the water. You can see
just his little whip-te-do and then it
kind of Of course, in the real world, it
goes ker-sploosh and then it arcs and it
does that. And there's a bunch of smoke
and drama that comes out of it. But I
don't care. I think it's absolutely
awesome.
Man, that is going to be an awful lot of
those in a minute.
Let me make sure There he goes. Cool.
So, one of the cool things is if you're
like doing a display, you can just like
shift click it and be like, "Oh yes, as
you can see by this Tomahawk, you're
about to get blown up. Ha ha ha ha ha."
Nice. Meanwhile, on our little carrier
group here, tap the F6 key, you can see
all these people are almost ready to go.
It's going to be about a minute and a
half. They have to spot them on the
carrier deck. And then they got to kind
of push them out the window. And it's a
big old mess.
Go ahead and unpause. Speed up time a
little bit.
Again, this entire scenario took me 30
minutes to make. You know, if I weren't
explaining it as I go, I could probably
do it in about half of that time.
Off they go. Notice, by the way, that as
soon as my F-35s got airborne, they
instantaneously picked up this vessel we
didn't even know was there. So, I feel
bad just like leaving it there. So, uh
shift F1. Don't think I have anything
that I can actually
Oh, I have no anti-ship weapons. Aw.
Well, he's going to get away free today.
Theoretically, I could take this F-35
and I could be like really really mean
or something like that. Also notice, as
soon as the enemy aircraft got airborne,
I instantaneously detected them by like
the 50 radars I've got going on. Look at
how accurate of a picture I have with
them, too. If I zoom in, there is zero
ambiguity as to the position of this
target. I know exactly where it is. I
know it's I know everything about it.
Modern equipment is insane. Now, one of
the things that will really really amuse
you here is these F-14s are actually
going to come around and they're going
to start looking and chasing after all
these Tomahawks that we launched. So,
it's actually kind of neat to watch
everything sort of happen all at the
same time here. But it's kind of fun.
Let's see how things are going for Iran
right now. Notice we've identified every
single one of these automatically as
soon as they got launched. We even have
a suspicious idea that they probably got
launched from a submarine about right
here. Isn't that amazing when you really
really think about it? It's not that he
stuck his head out of the water. It's
the fact that we are able to kind of
work backwards from where this giant
stream of Tomahawk missiles is coming
from. So, it's just uh like I said, part
of the fun. Part of the fun. By the way,
notice we have no concept that there is
a bunch of F-35s literally right there.
But that's kind of the fun, too.
So, our F-35s, as you can see here, have
already launched their JSOWs. And uh one
thing I don't want my F-35s to do is I
don't want them to waste AMRAAMs. I'm
actually going to pause. Control shift
F9. I'm going to go up to this thing
that says WRA. And I'm actually going to
order all AIM-120s to not fire at
maximum range cuz otherwise you're going
to waste a lot of them, trust me. So,
automatic firing range, I'm going to say
half range. Now, a lot of people are
like, "Why would you do half range?
These missiles go 75 miles." No, they
don't. Don't delude yourself. Don't
delude yourself. All right, we'll go
ahead and do that. As for the C5s, the
Ds on the flip side, look at the max
range on these things. Woah! What are
these things? AIM-54s?
Set 50%. Of course, some of you will go,
"Why don't you just do it to DLZ?" Uh
not needed. 50% of range is plenty. And
then my AIM-9s as well,
uh no escape zones. Probably pretty safe
for these guys. And I'm simply saying
don't fire until you're pretty darn
confident that you're actually going to
hit the target that you're interested in
hitting. Really important with things
like, you know, those kind of missiles.
Now, the reason I did that is you see
this AIM-120 here? By the way, if you
want to see something incredible,
we'll put up my 3D view. This requires
the professional TacView, by the way.
And I use TacView for everything, so I'm
totally fine with this. But check this
out.
Look at how high up they go.
They just like whoops-y-daisies. And
I'll speed up time a little bit. And
these things just climb and climb and
climb and climb and climb. And then what
they do is they hit their apex and they
actually start coming back down to
Earth. Now, the most incredible thing
here is if you look really carefully,
you can see all of these uh lovely
AMRAAMs basically coming back down to
Earth. And as they descend, you can see
that their speed is actually going to
drop significantly because they're no
longer burning their motors right now.
Uh they're just basically reentering.
Our four friends in these F-14s on the
flip side, look at this.
They have a vague idea there's missiles
here. But the only reason they have a
vague idea is because it was detected by
the early warning radar. Otherwise,
these poor F-14s would get a real real
surprise without any knowledge. They're
going to get smart though. And what
they're going to do is they're
immediately going to beam the missile.
And they'll do all those things
automatically. I don't have to reach in
and tell them what to do here. Uh
they're they're going to be smart enough
to set all those things up themselves.
There they go.
Notice these F-14s just turn and ran.
That's the best strategy. There's no
reason why you should beam it if you can
just leave. So, unfortunately, remember
all those really really expensive
AIM-120s that fired automatically
because we didn't tell them not to?
They're just wasting their time. And
basically, they pushed the F-14s out of
the way, which tactically speaking, I
don't mind that. Oh, he almost got them.
But notice, none of those AMRAAMs did
anything because they were just too far
out of range.
So, our F-14s now, uh this is a real fun
game if you've never played this game
before. But basically, you have to come
down to like, you know, 500 ft and chase
after these and actually take shots on
them as they're getting to position
here. Now, the cool thing here is as I
zoom in a bit, you can see them just
spreading out to a really really wide
fan as they start preparing to actually
strike the individual components of the
airfield. Meanwhile, simultaneously, you
have all these uh JSOWs that we launched
that are basically going to damage all
the different radar systems and stuff
like that. Of course, our F-35s, um
they're spent. Uh they've done their
thing. Um they have a couple more
AMRAAMs. And uh one of the things that I
do sometimes is I go find the guy who's
still missile left, which is not him. Uh
how about you? Do you have some missiles
left? You do?
I'll actually turn him around and I'll
go put him to use here.
We'll actually drop him out of the
system here. We'll press D, right click,
and we're actually going to cancel his
mission here because I'd rather just use
him. Let's get him to work here.
You're unassigned, sir.
So, now I'm going to order him right
into the combat and we're going to go
sneak up on those uh sneaky F-14s and
I'll do our thing here.
I hear some explosions.
Not a very exciting explosion.
Da da da da da da da da da.
Now, notice our F-14 buddies are um
having a heck of a fun time.
Problem here is all it takes is one
remaining access point and it won't
matter.
And now we're getting warnings saying
missiles are being launched. Again,
these missiles are chasing after our
JASSMs here, which is exactly what I'd
expect to happen here. So, let's go up
to afterburner. We'll go up to uh F-35
altitudes here.
Put this up to max altitude, kick off
the afterburner, and let's go.
Whoop. I think I was controlling the
missile there instead of this guy. My
bad. There he goes.
One of the downsides of the F-35 here is
it is an incredible plane, but it's not
the fastest thing going, believe it or
not. So, uh we're going to It's not
really its focus. And notice, by the
way, almost none of my JASSMs uh got to
my target.
Oh, man. Ah. Ooh.
Most important thing though is that we
crippled the F uh SA-5 here. Even if
that means I have to fire a couple more
Tomahawks at it.
There it goes.
The main 120 is doing its thing. Now,
notice, by the way, this one was shot at
a much, much shorter range. This is much
more reasonable, 43 miles. But,
unfortunately, it stupidly shot at a
target that's running. Don't shoot at
running targets. Um
Uh I didn't see that coming, but I'm not
annoyed about it, I guess.
I did say destroy anything. By the way,
notice that all of the second group has
automatically launched their weapons
when they realized that the first group
had basically not achieved their goals.
Ah, go back home. You're done.
One of the really useful things to do,
by the way, is you can leave this guy up
here doing donuts acting as an AWACS
plane for you while we which makes it
much, much simpler for it. And I see
that none of these got remotely close.
This is the only thing I actually need
to damage here. Everything else is nice
to kill, but um look at that Phantom's
like, "I got it. I'm going to get it.
I'm going to get it." Nah. That's got to
do it right there.
Oh. Ah.
Hopefully, that crippled it cuz if it
didn't, this battle is going to be a lot
longer for us. Meanwhile, if you recall,
uh we ordered up some stuff to get
launched in a few minutes. If you
actually go up to the air tasking order,
you can see there that our takeoff time
has been established at about 7:50. And
in about 6, 7, 8 minutes, uh we're going
to start doing our thing here. So, let's
speed up time.
Oh, that did a lot of damage. That was
expensive. That was expensive. Notice,
by the way, our aircraft are
automatically here. And if you just
heard that 7:50 roll around, there goes
our first airplane, and that would be
our F-35s, our English F-35s. So, one of
the problems we have here is we don't
know how much damage we did. And if I
actually zoom in here, you can see that
some of these access points were damaged
badly, but some of the access points are
probably still kicking pretty strong
here. So, if I actually uh switch on to
this mode real quick, you can see that a
few survived. And uh we have to disable
them because as long as they things
survive, they can still launch planes at
us. So, I'm going to go ahead and order
up another attack there.
Let's see, that's crippled. Let's go
sneak up on this way. There's a tarmac
spaces, ammo shelters. I think we got
the other ones pretty well there. Tarmac
space, I'm just going through each one
individually.
Yeah, I think we did a pretty nice job.
You know what? This building taunts me.
It gets a Tomahawk. Yeah, $20 is worth a
wooden shack.
We're also going to deal with that um
blind fire cuz I don't want that Rapier
shooting up our expensive F-35s. And you
know what? You get a missile, too.
And you know what? You get two missiles
cuz I like you.
All right, nice. And again, I just
spent, you know, $2 billion of the
taxpayer money. You know, the submarine
is literally going to have to go all the
way back to New London and reload.
Oh, well. Notice, by the way, that all
these Tomaha- or these um Tomcats are
rushing towards our other aircraft. Uh
the reason they're interested in me is
cuz of my altitude. So, you can see why.
Is because, if you remember that AWACS
plane I was talking about, notice this
is now detected. Um so, these um F-14s
are like, "Listen, check that out. I
want to I want a piece of that AWACS
plane." What they don't realize though
is they're about to fly into range of
something much more deadly, which is
again why you have to be so careful
about these things. All right, we'll go
speed up time. Here comes the next round
of Tomahawks.
Oh, man. This is what happens when you
launch unescorted Tomahawk cruise
missiles. Ah, happens every time. We
should have sent them over the woods
there. It's okay though. It's it's part
of the fun. Also, I'd rather their F-14s
waste time chasing those things down
than my much more expensive planes that
are going to be there in a few minutes.
Come on. Oh oh oh oh oh, nope. They
don't work. I love how my AWACS plane
has got such a good radar it can detect
the individual missiles launched at the
Tomahawks at that range.
Oh, man, these guys are having a fun
time with us.
Yes, strategically, this was the
incorrect method to do this. Bam! Ah, I
didn't even get the observer.
Oh, I got the radar though.
Unfortunately, the Rapier is uh still
super strong. So, um
Ah, I guess I'll do this correctly. I'll
wait for my other planes to get into
position.
So, remember those F-22s I was telling
you about?
These guys are going to be very, very,
very unhappy when they discover that
these things are in the neighborhood.
Look at the range in the radar on this
thing. It's staggering.
It's getting into range. Patience.
Remember, I believe it was what, 43
miles? Eh, still got a couple miles to
go here. Notice these F-14s are chasing
saying, "I I'm picking something up
here." Now, watch this. I'll actually
flip the radar screen around real fast.
You can see they're clueless that
there's a wall of F-35s, but we know
there's an AWACS plane out there. So, of
course, he's going to come do his thing
here not realizing he's about to get
steamrolled.
Sometimes these things happen.
Uh also, let the steamrolling begin.
What are you guys waiting for?
All right, let's go and take a look at
our mission. One of the things we have
to check is real quickly is uh double C
Let's see here. Uh damage a base. We
need to double-check to see what range
we're allowed to engage at here. Now, 80
nautical miles, that is in range. So,
there's really no reason why we're not
engaging these. Actually, let me press
shift F1 real quick. I just want to
confirm the fact that I didn't goof
something up here. Um
it's the difference in altitude is the
problem.
Oh,
I did not I did not anticipate that.
Let's see here. So, his altitude is
2,000 ft. So, if I'm a smarter person
here, I have to actually order my
escorts to get down. Get down. Get down
again.
So, let's see here. Military transits,
uh let's see here. Strike intercepts.
Let's see, we are in damage a base here.
Looks down. Submarine signals, we're not
doing any of those. Cruise, we don't
need to worry about any of that. Uh
nope. I guess we're just going to have
to fly past them. Otherwise, I'd have to
take my main group. One thing you can do
at any point, by the way, is you can
cancel them and then manually uh work
with them. So, if I wanted to, for
example, I could actually kick them off
of the mission here. Uh see here.
Uh assign to mission. Oh, I just saw it.
Assign to mission. Every time I see it,
I don't see it. Ah, there we go. Let's
go and dump them off the mission, and
then I'm going to go press F1, and we're
just going to engage them the
old-fashioned way.
Go down to minimum altitude.
Things you got to watch out for because
remember, these F-35s are very, very,
very high flyers.
We're going to speed up. And look at
this, we're in range. Here comes the
fireworks.
Oh, those F-14s are never going to know
what hit them.
All of a sudden, there's just going to
be missiles that appear from the sky and
it's just going to start splattering on
them. Notice, by the way, the F-14 still
has a pretty heavy amount of agility
You know what? I think they're doing a
perfectly fine job. I'm going to assign
them back to that mission. When you do
this, by the way, make sure you set that
as escort, otherwise they won't be
escorts kind of a thing.
Are you guys in the correct mission?
Yeah. How about you? Are you guys in the
correct mission? Yeah, you're good.
One of those things that I must have
right-clicked the wrong button at one
point.
Yeah, I'm good. We'll see what happens
as the mission kind of shakes out here.
Oh. What a hit. What a hit.
All right, let's click on them. Looks
pretty good to me. Looks pretty good to
me. That's Oh, I thought that was an
airplane. So, now we're have just doing
its thing. All right, cool. So far, so
good. So, one of the problems is that
Rapier is still alive. Um that's very
problematic for us because it means that
um we're going to have to be really
careful. So, one of the things that you
can do is you can actually just take a
guy and have him take a pot shot at as
he goes by. So, what I'll actually do is
give him a pre-order to basically take
that shot. Another reason that'll give
us an advantage later on is when he does
go by, he'll kind of hit that Rapier.
So, don't be surprised, by the way, if
we lose an F-35.
Now, notice, by the way, how all the
aircraft have uh split themselves up
into every which way. Also notice we've
detected a couple more bogies, but
notice there's less of them.
All right, there goes my initial drop.
There goes my initial set of drops. And
notice my F-22s are like, "Me me me me.
Let me have it. Me me me me." Watch
this. So, order them to be manually
hostile here.
And the F-35 is like, "No, no, my shot,
my kill, my kill, my kill." Notice, by
the way, um Iran is just sitting there.
Oh, the fireworks begins. Oh.
Uh-oh. Here comes the lag. Once you get
enough units going at one time, it
starts to get a little chunky.
Oh, there's some jerk with an SA-7 or
something like that that tried to Oh,
man. Ow. Ouch. Ah.
Now, notice our strikers return, but
here's the scariest part of all. If I
actually were to switch real quickly
over to Iran, you can see that we saw a
couple of the airplanes at least for a
couple moments there basically visually
cuz of all, you know, just looking up
kind of a thing like that. All right,
looks pretty good. Everybody go home.
Uh-oh.
Why not, right?
Really easy way to lose an airplane, by
the way, is hanging around the uh target
area too long kind of a thing like that.
And that pretty much that takes care of
our scenario here. So, uh this is the
fun part. This is when we get to take a
look at sort of uh the results.
Obviously, we didn't put scoring or
anything like that. So, that's going to
be kind of a big aspect of it. So, let's
go see what we did. We're going to
switch over to the other side. And one
thing you'll notice, by the way, is Iran
continued to launch aircraft at us. That
simply meant that we must have missed
one of the access points here. You can
see most of them are absolutely
splattered here. But, I'm sure that just
takes exactly one access point to
survive and everything's fine. So, I
think we got, like I said, most of them.
There's one we missed. I don't know
which one we missed, but it only takes
one, folks. And they will just cha-cha
line aircraft onto there. But, one of
the things you can do is you can
actually hit F6 here. Look at how much
damage we did. If you order him to land,
you can actually see how much damage do
we have here. Including several aircraft
that actually returned to base safely
here and gives you some pretty good
times there. All right, let's see how we
did. So, we come up here, we go over to
losses and expenditures.
Let's see.
Wow.
That's embarrassing. We we we did
nothing. This was an absolute
embarrassment from a tactical
achievement here. And yes, you're right,
we did knock that airport and scared
them. No, this is terrible. Like, this
is embarrassing. Let's see decoys and
all of those. Expenditures, let's see
We used a lot of stuff. But, of course,
take a look at the cost to the taxpayers
here. That's the best part.
See, NATO, none.
Decoys, none. Expenditures, watch this.
16 of these, one of these, 37 of those.
What are they? $800,000 US each. Uh we
got some 9Xs and 24 paveways. And oh my
gosh, a cost of a Tomahawk cruise
missile. Let me go look that up on
Google for you real quickly here.
Oh my god, they're almost 2 million a
piece. So, this entire operation today
probably cost the United States and
government and NATO and the United
Kingdom, you know, half a billion
dollars for the achievement of
eliminating, I don't know, six or seven
airplanes and doing quite a bit of
damage. So, there's a lot of things we
could have done to do this one better.
And like I said, this is one of the
reasons I love this is we can reload the
scenario and try again. You know, we can
individually target individual
buildings. We can go through. We can be
very very carefully, precisely allocate
our Tomahawks so they have an escort as
they ride in. There are so many other
things we could have done. But, that's
the beauty of this program. And that's
hopefully what you take away. All right.
So, we're we've gone about an hour or
so. Uh this is the point in the little
live stream here. I'm going to ask if
anybody has any questions or anything
that they would like to see in command
real fast. Uh that's definitely
something I could call up for you or
maybe you have a question about
something you're not sure of. This would
be a great time to kind of throw that
over in the chat. Like I said, I'll keep
it a going for a couple of minutes here
to see if anything comes around. Um
while that's going on, of course, uh
we'll have to go back to uh somebody
whose name was Belugan who was the
reason why I play this game. And uh
we'll get that all set up while you
folks throw your questions in the chat,
should you have any. If you don't,
that's fine. Again, you can always uh go
visit the forums and those folks are
super duper helpful as far as that goes.
Let's see here.
See, United States. Uh
there we go.
Uh what do you want? Minot today? We'll
do Minot Air Force Base. Bop.
That sounds pretty good to me. Bop bop.
Swing over to this side.
Actually, you know what I could do is
even easier. Uh let's see here.
Uh just just just fire willy-nilly.
Don't don't think that you need to wait
around or anything like that.
So, we'll let them kind of do their
little thing here.
Apparently, I lost a helicopter at some
Oh, in that case, fine. I'll do it
myself.
See, shift F1. Oh, I'm on the wrong
team.
Whoops. That would have been
embarrassing.
Oh man, that would have been so
embarrassing. Could you imagine me doing
that? That that I would have laughed
pretty hard. Would have laughed pretty
hard. So, hopefully people in the
audience have caught my little boo-boo
All right. Let's go try that again.
Import export. Oh, I accidentally
selected all of them. That's probably
not recommended. Let's go to the United
States. I'll do ICBM. We'll go back to
Minot. It's easy enough.
Grab that. Control shift F9.
Go ahead and say uh nuclear weapons. Yo,
let's go. Grab that.
Let's go ahead and press the shift F1
and we'll do the old-fashioned way.
There we go.
Uh let's see. You get a nuclear weapon
and you get a nuclear weapon. Uh you
folks, unfortunately, can't do one of
these things up here. So, like you can
like click on one at a time sort of
thing cuz you can only get one at a
time. See, you get a nuclear weapon. You
get a nuclear weapon. You get a nuclear
weapon. You get a nuclear weapon. And
you know what? You get a nuclear weapon,
too. Why not? Okay. So, now, of course,
when you do that, control shift F9, you
can just tell them to willy-nilly just
go.
So, we'll let them do that and we'll see
what happens. All right. Um safety guy
says, "Why do you prefer this over the
pro version? And uh which US plane has
the best radar, the rivet joint?" Um so,
safety guy, um the reason I don't like
the pro version is a lot of things in
the pro version, uh the best way to
describe it is to say that it's designed
for data use scientists and it's
designed for data users. And there's a
lot of little gameplay things that are
for from an older version that I've
really really really kind of gotten used
to that I actually prefer in the
civilian version than the pro version.
The pro version is fantastic.
If I want to run a scenario and see
exactly how many missiles I used out of
10 million times, I could do that
easily, casually, no problem with the
pro version. And it does a delightful
job. The other thing the pro version
does, which is incredibly awesome, is
the fact that it gives you the ability
to actually watch uh you can record
everything and load it into TacView
afterwards. That's something I really
wish they would change in a command as
well so we have it.
And now, the other thing, too, is the
way the licensing and some of that piece
works. Like, I'm not going to describe
how it works, but basically, it makes it
a little tricky to actually open. And
it's not to say if you're part of these
organizations it is hard, which it is
not. It's just for me as a consumer it's
a little harder to use. Um and asking
about the which US plane has the best
radar, I that's it's it's going to be
like anything. It's it's going to be
highly dependent on what you mean by
best radar. Uh there are definitely
radars out there that are fantastic at
detecting ground units and there are
definitely a bunch of radars out there.
The mission end already?
What happened to all my missiles? They
just launched.
That was interesting. Do I have any
missiles left? Nope, they all got
launched.
Huh.
Did anybody just watch all the missiles
do that? I would not be surprised if I
found another bug. I'm famous for that.
Um so, as far as the rivet joint goes,
where did all my missiles go?
Also,
that's entertaining to watch. Um let's
go take a look at the rivet joint real
fast.
I'll type in the rivet joint.
Uh 2020. I don't think this thing has a
strong of a radar, actually. This is an
APQ It's a ground mapping radar. Yeah,
you can't do much with that radar. Uh
the one that I really really really
really like is actually Where's the E2?
Where's the new one? The D, I think it
is.
Uh this one. The radar in this thing is
ridiculous. And of course, if you really
want excessive, I'll go get the Zumwalt.
That the radar on that thing, let me go
grab it real quickly here, is absolutely
positively incredibly good. Like, it's
it's just it's like cheating. And then,
of course, if you're a weirdo like me,
you'd press insert and you type in SPY.
And oh, that's not the one. Oh, what is
it? APX?
SPX? It's going to come to me in a
second here. X band.
Uh band radar. I'm going to get it. I'm
going to get it. Oh, it's going to take
me a while. I got to remember the name
of that one. But, basically, it's a
giant radar that floats and it's it's
just it can see into space and stuff.
It's super fun.
All right, cool. I've no idea what
happened to my Minuteman. I'm actually
going to look into that. Kind of curious
what happened here. Uh let's see here.
Weapon end game. We'll go ahead and open
that up real fast. UH
I'VE NEVER
OH.
OH, INCOMPETENCE. INCOMPETENCE. That
that was on me. That was on me. That's
kind of thing that happened.
Uh let's see here.
I have no reason to do so, but I've done
scenarios all around the world. All
right. I'll give everybody a few more
moments if they like to throw me some
more questions. Otherwise, I'm just
going to kind of enjoy what uh what is
that, you know, two and a half billion
dollars worth of Tomahawks can do to one
Uh
Not much. As a matter of fact, all we
did is uh dent up the same six pieces of
tarmac space 100 times. Again, if you
want to waste Tomahawks, do an automatic
attack. Otherwise, it's a heck of a lot
more safer to just uh manually do it
yourself.
All right, cool. So, other than that,
hopefully you guys enjoyed our live
stream today. Like I said, I usually
don't do command live streams. It tends
to be longer and take a little more
prep. But again, the purpose here was to
let everybody see what this game is all
about and give you a fairly good idea of
what you're getting with it. I have 100%
gotten all the money that I put into
this game out of it. Like, no doubt in
my mind in the slightest. If this is
something that appeals to you, this is
like heaven. There's a very very few
other things. SPX1, thank you.
Too late.
There it is.
Thank you. Thank you. There it is.
I knew I Somebody remembered. I'm right.
It had the word X band. I wasn't wrong.
But yeah, this thing has a radar that
can see, oh, 2,800 nautical miles. I
think that's enough. I think that's
enough.
But other than that, I'll have a
wonderful rest of the day, everybody. Uh
for me, it's the afternoon in the United
States. I'm going to get some lunch, go
take the dog for a walk and everything
like that. Uh coming up next week, uh
we've got, like I said, every Monday we
do a release another video. I do the
best I can to try to keep it sort of
timely. So, things that I see like on
forums and Discord and that's usually
where I'm looking for comments more than
anything. But uh other than that, enjoy.