# C: MO - Helicopter Cargo Operations
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yqZ7VHn6EFI
Video ID: yqZ7VHn6EFI

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be taking a look at a quick
hellet drop mission. We're going to take
some units from a helport. We're going
to go and load them up and then we're
going to bring them over to an LZ and do
what they usually do at LZ's. We're
going to be doing quite a bit of stuff
with ground units in the next few weeks,
I think, cuz a lot of people have been
asking questions about that. So, first
things first, I have myself a helport
here. Just kind of chilling here on the
coast. I built it myself. There's
nothing special about it. It has a bunch
of helellipads. It has a barracks, an
ammo pad, and of course, some AV gas in
the event that this thing became a
target. You'll also notice here that
I've got a platoon here of US Marines
just sort of hanging out here basically
catching some sun on the beach kind of
thing like that. So, the first thing I
want to show you is whenever you're
working with cargo, one of the things
you need to know is how to get cargo in
and out of things. Now, one of the uh
good things bad things about the way
cargo is handled in command modern
operations is it has to come from
somewhere and has to go to somewhere.
So, for example, if I had this little US
Marine platoon here, and I wanted to add
them to the helicopter mission here,
theoretically, what I could do is launch
a helicopter, pick them up, and then go
fly them off. The other thing I could
do, too, is I could load them directly
into the hellase so that I could load
them directly onto the helicopters.
Let's show you how to do that. So, the
first thing I'm going to do is I'm going
to switch over here to basically a
non-group view. I want to see individual
units and I'm going to pick something.
In this case, the barracks. I'm going to
grab that barracks. Now, there's a
couple different ways I can take this
and load infantry. Basically, load these
guys up. One thing I wish the command
team would do is they'd have a little
icon to show you that it's carrying like
infantry or something like that. Yeah,
we'll get that someday, maybe. So, what
we're going to do is we're going to
order this units to get loaded into this
building. It's actually really easy to
do. So, the simple way if you right
click, you have a thing that says select
units to pick up. That's okay. I find
that kind of irritating actually.
Instead, what I'd recommend is click on
the building, click on the button that
says cargo. Notice there's already some
cargo in there. You won't have this
button, by the way, if you're playing
outside of the scenario editor. So, if I
click on cargo, it pops up this little
cargo operations page here. You can see
all the different stuff that's going on
here. You've got unload, you've got
transfer cargo, and of course, if you
transfer cargo, you can actually move
the cargo between the different
buildings that you have in your
environment like you have. Now, notice
here, if I go over to edit cargo button,
there's the ability to basically click
on it and press load selected. Now, if I
press that, that's going to go ahead and
toss those people in there just like
that instantly. If I actually came here
and press unload selected, you'll see
that it promptly rejects them. Now, like
I said, since you don't have that
button, what you're going to have to do
instead is grab the building, right
click, load unit, just like that. And if
you give it a little bit of time to pass
here, he disappears. And now he is
inside of the cargo of this particular
unit. If I were to click on it now,
you'll see my little infantry platoon
here, US Marines, is sitting there ready
to rock, ready to do their thing, kind
of deal. Now, let's get ready for the
cargo operation itself. So, what we want
to do is we want to attack this target
over in this region. Now, it's a little
weird to think that we'd be just flying
there directly without some kind of air
support or something like that. So, what
we'll do is we'll land a little bit far
out and we'll just kind of make a
strike. So, let's see here. That looks
good. That's about 1.6 miles about this
is a pretty long distance to have to
hike, but we'll make it work. So, the
way we like to do this is control
rightclick. You're going to define
yourself an area. And this is going to
be your LZ. I'm just going to call this
LZ. Keep it nice and simple. Biggest
mistake I've always made with LZ's is
making them too big. Um, that's just a
common newbie mistake. Double check when
you make an LZ, by the way. Like if I
hold my mouse over this, make sure it's
not too steep. Like I can see here, it's
a little bit high up, but there's no
like crazy slope or something we have to
worry about. And again, this works for
parachute operations, too, if you chose.
So now all we have to do is set up the
mission. Crl F11. Uh, we'll say LZ
Alpha. Why not? We'll set this to cargo.
We'll make this a delivery. Press Okie
do. And now we have to do is pick the
units we want to fly in, which case we
have all these lovely ospreys. So, I'm
going to grab all these ospreys, toss
them in here. Now, you'll notice when I
come over here that it automatically
shows me all the different options here,
as well as all the issues, including the
one at the top saying no more emission
available. Check it to make sure you've
done move all cargo. Now, the simplest
simplest simplest way to do this is to
push that button. As soon as you push
that button, it selects all the cargo
here and it orders them up to be moved,
including this one group, which I
probably didn't need to order them.
You'll notice here ground units and
cargo may self transfer if it needs to
be done, which is actually kind of nice
if it needs to be done. Doesn't need to
be done in this case, so don't worry
about that. All right, so I pause and
pause. I'm going to go and fast forward
time. I'm try to be careful with my fast
forwarding of time. The biggest mistake
I've always made with this one is
basically going, "Oh, it takes him 15
minutes to load up the cargo." Speaking
of which, and let's give them another
minute here. And that's going to be 45
51. That's enough time, I think. Let's
press F6. You'll see that it's taking
them another 50 44 seconds to load
troops on the helicopters. That makes
sense. Whereas our mortar teams aren't
going to be ready for about 15 minutes.
Like I said, that works pretty well. So,
what I will do is I will use the magical
capabilities of our teleportation here.
Go ahead and skip a minute at a time in
order to make this a little bit safer.
Uh, let's see here. I've got that all
saved. There we go. Hey, there we go.
And I just skipped ahead a couple
minutes. Excellent. So, our helicopters
now, you'll notice, are individual
units. If you launch them as a group, it
will not work. And each one of these
units, of course, if I were to take a
look at their cargos. Remember, we won't
have the edit cargo button there. You
can see they have a different group in
there and they've already self-loaded.
Now, the cool thing is if I run back to
this base real quick, you'll see here if
I go to my barracks now, go into my uh
we'll go to regular cargo that there's
only a few things left. There's like the
marine squad, like my stingers and stuff
like that, but they'll get picked up in
a minute. So, I'm going to unpause here.
Unfortunately, all of our important
assault equipment, the stuff we really
need for this battle is all waiting for
us back at home. Set the back to 1x. Ah,
it's doing the thing on me again.
Ah, I feel like that's auto pausing.
Auto pausing off.
H, I see. I don't need auto pause. Auto
pause. Auto pause. I don't need you to
auto pause. Oh, well, it does that
sometimes.
There we go. They're heading into LZ
Alpha there. We'll skip another minute
ahead.
Looks good. Go ahead. Right over to LZ
Alpha. There it goes. They're going to
go get ready. This is kind of the fun
part. What they try to do is find a
place to actually park. See how they all
sort of park sort of randomly is the
best way to describe it.
There it goes. They're just sort of
hanging out. They're dropping the troops
off. Again, you can't drop your troops
off instantaneously.
And they take back off. Fantastic. All
right. Good. All right, Marines. We got
a job to do. So, unfortunately, with no
support equipment, this is uh pretty
stupid, but we'll make do with what we
have here. All right. Uh we're going to
go and edit that guy there. We're going
to order him here. Unfortunately,
they're going to have to hoof it that
last mile with no mortar support. This
is a really foolish way to do a mission,
but hey, sometimes that happens. All
right, Marines, you've got a job to do.
Get to it.
And they're on their way. It's going to
take them a few minutes to get there,
unfortunately.
I like how since they're pointing to the
right, but uh clearly they're basically
just kind of huffing. Oh boy, this is
going to go horribly. We'll go ahead and
now skip 15 minutes ahead this time.
Go ahead, Marines. All right, we'll skip
another five minutes. I love the little
skip ahead button since when it works.
It works great. All right, we're just
about in range here. About another Whoa.
Uh-oh.
And of course, uh, while this is going
on, they're about to get a big old
gunfight here, which is kind of the fun
part. Uh, meanwhile, if you come back
here, you can see that in about a few
minutes here, we'll be ready to go ahead
and ship out those mortars and the heavy
weapons. Actually, what am I saying? The
heavy weapons have arrived.
All
right, heavy weapons. Let's do what
heavy weapons are best at. Go ahead and
hit that. Like that. So, I'm going to go
ahead and grab that one. F1. I'm just
going to hold down the shift and like
that. Hold down shift and like that.
Like that. Release. And after they get
their targets all kind of squared away
there, they're going to go ahead and
take some shots. There's the mortar fire
I was promised.
And of course, we can have our infantry
join in for the fun, too, as well to
kind of deal with the enemy units here.
There we go. There we go. Fantastic.
We'll skip ahead another minute of our
battle here. Look at this. Look at this.
Go mortar teams. Go mortar teams. Go
mortar teams. Actually, we can probably
grab everybody. Press the F1 key. Click
right there. Like that. Well, actually,
shift F1. We're going to go and do one
of those. All right, there goes my
Marines. Go do it, Marines. Get to it,
Marines. Oh, come on. You forgot that
guy. And it's gone. Mission
accomplished.
All right, let's see how we did here.
Uh, we fired 300. That's enough. That's
enough. That's enough. We also fired
some of these laws. I assume we got all
the enemy units. If I come down here, I
can see the two mortar sections did a
beautiful, beautiful job going through
about half their ammunition. Next time,
we're going to have to take a look at
how to load ammo in the field, but
that's a video for another day. Enjoy.