# C: MO - Using ASAT Weapons such as the ASM-135
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZI33voJYRpE
Video ID: ZI33voJYRpE

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be trying to use one of the
more curious weapons that the US Air
Force came up with, and that is the
anti-satellite missile. This is the ASM
154, and we're going to be taking a pot
shot at this lovely satellite here. This
is a USA 6. It is a keyhole block 2, and
we're going to try to do the deed. Now,
in order to make this work, uh there's a
lot of little things we have to get
right. Uh the first thing, of course, we
have to do is we have to make sure we're
in the appropriate, uh basically DLZ.
That's going to be problem number one.
The second problem is we're going to
have to make sure that we have the
correct alignment. Now, if you take a
look at the satellite real quick, you'll
observe here it is traveling at one I'm
sorry, not 1,00 15,123
knots. Uh, that's a pretty fast target.
And if you just watch it kind of go
around the planet a little bit, you
realize it only takes 90 minutes to go
all the way around. That's hauling.
Meanwhile, what do we have on our side?
We have ourselves a globe. No, we have
ourselves, of course, the F-15. This is
the special anti-satellite version. It
actually is called an anti-satellite.
It's a highly modified F-15A. One of the
things you'll observe is it's at 80,000
ft right now. Um that is the basically
the launch altitude if you want to think
about it another way. But the weird
thing is because the way they programmed
it, we can use it at 80,000 ft all the
time, which makes it a really good
reconnaissance platform actually. But
the reality is it can only I'm sorry,
the ASM 135. I got my numbers confused
there, but you can see exactly what that
looks like. All right, so what are we
going to have to do? Um we're going to
have to hit this thing. So the way I'm
going to do it is I'm first going to go
and click on the satellite and I'm going
to observe its orientation. If I zoom
out a little bit, you can kind of see
those lines there. Now, in order to make
this nice and easy for us, so what
they've done is they've done a projected
course line that you can actually see
here. And now the thing you got to be
mindful of is this parallax problem.
When I move this line, do you see how
you can see the coarse line through the
planet? We're trying to get it so that
those coarse lines overlap each other.
Now, as you go like this and kind of
fiddle with it, do you see how there's
an intersection point between the course
lines? Right about here, you can see
where they all kind of line up with each
other. This means that these particular
courses are basically going to cross.
Now, that's good because that's going to
provide us with our shooting point. So,
what I'm going to do is I'm going to go
in here and add myself a little point
just so I know where that is. This basic
shooting point. I'm going to call it
here. Make it a little bit simpler for
us. Again, I'll go confirm that visually
one more time here. And I'm going to
play the little overlapping game for a
moment. And that looks good to me. So
that's where we're going to take a shot.
And again, this is going to be pretty
easy once we get there. So then all I
have to do is I have to get myself to
that shooting point. Now, before I do
that, I'm actually going to click it one
more time. We're going to create a
second point, which is going to act as
basically our alignment point. And
again, if you're off by a couple miles,
it's not going to break the game, but
it's um going to be a harder shot,
you'll see. So I'm going to come down
here, and we're going to use this point
as basically the alignment point. Align
point. I've just invented a new word.
Cool. So, what we're going to do is take
our F-15 with our anti-satellite weapon,
and we're going to aim it at the
alignment point, and we're going to have
it proceed towards the shooting point.
Now, keep in mind, we're doing this what
appears to be early. But the reality is
is remember this thing's traveling
15,000 knots, which means the distance
here, if you measure that real quick, of
2,00 346, let's do the math here. Uh,
look at that. The calculator didn't mess
me up this time. 3046 divided by what do
we say about 15,000 * 60. That means
it'll be over us in 12 minutes. That's
how long that's going to take to get to
us. So, that's not a lot of time, but
that gives us plenty of time to get
ready to fire the weapon. All right,
let's go ahead and get our lovely F-15
going here. There's no requirement that
you're traveling in high speed or
anything on like the real one, which
require basically a Mach 1.35 launch, I
believe it was kind of a thing.
Although, the fact it's an IRK.
[laughter]
All right, let's take a look. Launch
altitude, we're within that parameter.
Fine. Target altitude, we're within
that. Uh, we've got a pretty long range
of 250 nautical miles. It is a basically
a hit to kill, which is interesting
because you don't want to make more
space junk, but they didn't think of
that when they developed this weapon.
Now, apparently the Air Force wasn't
really thrilled about this weapon. It's
not that they didn't like it. It's just
that they thought it was like, you know,
kind of like a waste of time kind of a
thing, you know, like, whoa, I missed my
first shot. Give me a second here.
There we go. So, what I want to do is
wait until we're just about in critical
range. fire.
So, what this is going to do is is going
to get this weapon up in the air. Now,
one of the most crazy things is, and
this is the first mistake people make,
is do you notice that we're never going
to get an intercepting shot here. Uh,
we're moving at about 2x that weapons.
Oh, no. We might have a shot. Apologies,
but one of the problems you're probably
noticing is this is a heck of a
deflection angle. And again, since we
don't have a true 3D here, yes, I could
have used tio. It's very difficult to
see how much of an angle this thing is
really arriving at. But you can see just
like that, it splattered that satellite.
And granted, I had to do it a little bit
far back from what I originally
intended, but the same concept is
exactly true. Now, one of the things
worth mentioning while we're talking
about ASATs here is the fact that there
are other ASEAT weapons that don't have
to be launched from an F-15. One of my
favorites, of course, are silly things
like this guy here. Uh, this is a lovely
SM3. Believe it or not, has no
capability, but if you look carefully,
it is actually an anti-satellite weapon.
Yes, this is little tiny thing can
actually shoot at satellites. And what's
even more terrifying is if you look at
the SM6 here, if you scroll down a
little bit, you will also notice that it
is able to engage satellites. Problem
with ships, of course, is you have to be
at the right place at the right time.
You also see we have an incredible range
here. So, if I shift F1, click on the
satellite, I'm going to fire a pair of
these. I'm going to press the execute
button to say okay. Now, if I own pause,
you will notice this weapon launches.
And it's a stupid weapon because it is
got a range of Yes, [laughter] that's
what my buddy would basically say. So,
what I will do is I'll watch this thing
get launched. And uh you can see it's uh
not having to work very hard. I I did
day and night land. I meant to do 3D
view. My apologies. And um this is an
incredible weapon. And I will go ahead
and grab tac view for the purposes of
seeing this thing in action because you
simply cannot believe how far this
missile can actually travel to engage a
target. One, two, three. I will try hard
not to accidentally fast forward past
the critical component for the 900th
time, [laughter]
but you can see very clearly the what
this engagement looks like. And it is um
a little one-sided. You'll actually
notice that the weapons had to level off
because like again the curvature of the
earth. If we go this way, we're actually
going that way. Don't think too hard.
It's just an interesting problem. But we
can see here if I pop up on the top view
here as we're coming in for our
engagement that these weapons are
traveling oh I don't know Machu 13 and
you can see it easily slap that
satellite out of the sky. Interesting
stuff. So the key thing is make sure you
know where the target's going to be.
Make sure you get there pointing towards
the target before it gets there and you
should have no difficulty. Enjoy.