# C: MO - ASW and AAW Missions in the GUIK
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSVjL25akYU
Video ID: ZSVjL25akYU

Hello everyone. In today's video, we're
going to be answering a question that
somebody on Discord had that was a new
player as far as you sort of how to
manage different types of missions and
kind of just general strategies once
scenarios start to get a little bit more
complex. So, we have today, of course,
is we're sitting here arresting in the
GUIK gap. Of course, we've got
Greenland, you've got Iceland, you've
got the United Kingdom, and everything
in between. And we're tasked with
basically not getting blown up by the
Soviets. It's 1985. And of course, uh,
we're trying to eliminate any submarine
threat that we can find. Uh, speaking of
submarine threat that we can find. Man,
I couldn't have timed that better if I
tried. It seems we have made two quick
detections here using the Sosus array.
Now, the Sosus, of course, is a bottom
fixed array. If you want to imagine it a
different way, it is essentially a giant
microphone underwater. It's actually a
series of microphones. They won't tell
you how far away anything is, but
they'll tell you there's something
interesting in that direction. Now,
here's where things get kind of fun for
us. First of all, we have no idea the
nature of these subconts. saw they could
literally be whales. I didn't put whales
in the scenario. I could have, but I
didn't. Uh, the second thing is we don't
know what country it belongs to, what
type, we don't know depth, but we do
know direction. And with a little bit of
deduction on our part, we can figure out
where things are without needing the
triangulation. Now, ideally, we would
have picked this target up here, and
then this one would have also picked it
up here, and we would know it's right
here or something like that. However,
well, if you take a look at the weather
conditions, u, we notice, for example,
at sea state 4, which is awful. It is
light rain. There's a lot of clouds. It
is a nasty day outside, which is going
to severely reduce our detection range.
Now, I happen to have my little master
cheat sheet over here, and it says that
a Sosus array, especially this
particular unit, can pick up your
average uh nuclear submarine at about
350 to 400 miles. Now, that's awesome
because that gives us a range in which
to work from. We know probability wise
that if we had to guess, this submarine
is probably right where my mouse is. If
I had to put money on it, I'd say he's
plus or minus 20 mi right where my mouse
is. Again, if we want to take about a
400 mile range reduced by the nastiness,
say between 300 and 350 miles. So, he's
probably in here. As a matter of fact,
if I had to bet more money on that, if I
do about this range since we have not
detected him from here, but we have
detected him from here. If I were to put
this at about 330 mi away, we'll just
put that as an estimate. But we know
that he has to be about that range, too.
we can safely say he's probably right
there. That's where our submarine is
going to be. Now, you're sitting here
going, "There's no way you just figured
that out on your own." And the reality
is they do this stuff all the time. Once
I hear something and know how loud it
is, I can make a pretty good guesstimate
as to where it is. Now, this of course
is a goblin. It's a subc target. And
this is what I'm interested in first.
So, now I'm going to prosecute this
target by creating basically a little
region of h kind of a thing in here. So,
let's go ahead and do that first. So,
I'm going to start by pressing on
creating myself an area here. Now, of
course, the weather's really really bad.
So, my area can't be too big. So, like
25 by 25 is probably plenty here. So, if
I go out to about uh we'll call it 30
miles here. We'll come up to here. I'm
going to go ahead and define an area.
We'll go ahead and control end control
delete. Control rightclick. And we'll do
an area. And we're just going to go like
that. And this is going to be where our
subsurface prosecution is going to be.
Prosecute. Prosecute.
subcont
contact contact. Fantastic. So now I've
got a lot of different things I could
use to prosecute the subcont. And again,
this is a major guess on my part, but I
almost promise you I'm not that far off.
The other thing, too, is we haven't
picked them up on this one yet, which is
pretty safe to say that he's probably a
little bit farther away than this, cuz
otherwise we would have gotten both of
them. So, what we have at our disposal,
of course, is we have over here is a
couple P3 Orions. P3s are great for this
kind of work. I would almost say that
that was their intended purpose. So, I'm
going to press control F11 here. I'm
going to do ASW. I'm going to do a
patrol. We're going to do an
anti-surface ASW patrol. I'm going to
press the okeyoke button. And I'm going
to grab those two. I'm going to hide the
multi mission. Just gets messy. All
right. Let's grab my two P3s here. Uh,
where are they? I just saw one right
there. Bing. I'm going to go and toss
them in there like that. And I'm only
going to do one in the water at a time.
Otherwise, they're going to waste a lot
of time. We're just going to be dropping
son of everywhere and just making a big
old mess. All right. So, that guy's
going to go check that subsurface
contact out. But what about this
subsurface contact? Now, as I was saying
before, u we need to use a little bit of
logic here, a little bit of tactical
thinking. We know there's an ice shelf.
If you wonder what this little yellow
line is here, this is the ice shelf.
Anything here is under the ice. Anything
here is above the ice. If I am a Soviet
submarine and I'm trying to hide, you
want to be under the ice, number one,
which means I can't basically drop
sunobies on you because they'd land on
the ice and go conk. Number two, uh you
want to stay shallow. shallow is noisy.
Like you'll notice where my mouse is
here, the depth here goes down to 8,000
ft. That's really, really, really deep.
The subsurface does very little, I
should say. By subsurface, I'm referring
to the seafloor here. You don't really
hear it. But when you get shallow, like
it is over here on the shore, it gets
really, really loud. That being said,
Greenland does not exactly have shallow
water here. You can see we're about 800
ft. So, he can go anywhere in here. And
really, his only benefit is going to be
the fact that he's got this ice shelf to
stop him from dropping sunobies on his
head. So that's going to make it a
little bit more exciting for us to hunt
him down. In this particular case,
again, it's going to be kind of hard to
hit him. If I had my own submarine, what
I would do is I basically send my own
submarine this way trying to take a
listen for him, but the reality is I
can't touch this guy easily. Again, I
can set a mission up over here and try
to like go around the corner and listen
for him, but like it's going to be very,
very unlikely. And chances are he's
trying to be sneaky to get into the
North Atlantic. He's not coming for us.
Now, what about us? We are a carrier
group here. And one of the problems
we're going to make here is these lovely
underwater rays, which you can see are
already doing a wonderful job of
detecting things. Um, they basically do
not have the capability of hearing
through my carrier group. So, if you've
ever seen soccer, you know how the
goalie always stands away from the goal
when the ball is over here. It's the
same problem. If my carrier group gets
in the way of my little underwater
microphones, I'm not going to be able to
hear anything. There's an added bonus as
well. If I get myself closer to Iceland,
that means the Ruskies or the Soviets at
this particular point have to fly a lot
farther to deliver weapons to me, which
gives me time to think. Now, you're
sitting here going, "Whoa, whoa, whoa.
If you turn that carrier group around,
that's going to be bad because then
you're not going to be able to hear
behind you." That's only partly true.
Uh, one of the nice things we have at
our disposal, of course, is something
called a Toad Array sonar. Now, if I
grab the Sammy B here and actually click
on him, one of the tools that he has to
make things a little bit better for him
is he has a sonar array that he drags
behind himself. So, if I were to go up
here real quickly here, there we go.
Toad array. And now, that makes it a
much much much easier for us to
basically listen as we leave, if you
want to kind of think about it another
way. So, the first step is I'm going to
get my carrier group away from the
party. If I get them closer to the
Russians, it's going to give them more
time in which to do awfulness to us. So,
what I'm going to do is I'm actually
going to sneak inland here and kind of
hide a little bit. We'll keep our speed
down. Even 10 knots is pretty quick
there. And again, we can hear pretty
well into the water, but not perfectly.
Now, one of the challenges for us is we
have no subs. Um, this would be a much
simpler scenario with subs because we
basically leave a sub where they were,
and anybody tries to sneak up on them
gets a nice torpedo surprise. Okay, so
that takes care of that. Now, let's talk
about the Russian or the Soviet air
threats. We're not dealing with Russians
here. We're dealing with the Soviet
Union. The Soviet air threat is very
real. This is the thing they're good at.
Uh they're going to have Tupelift 95
RTS, which are long range maritime
reconnaissance planes. We'll look at
that problem in a second. And of course,
they're going to have the dreaded
tupelift 16 and 22s with their extremely
high velocity anti-ship missiles. Let me
show you what I mean. So, if I go to
browse scenario platforms real quick,
switch over to team red, go to aircraft.
If I were to go to my Badger C, a pretty
big thing, but look at the size of those
missiles underneath this guy. Now, if I
scroll down here, I can see that those
missiles, the Kipper and the Kingfish,
let's see here. The maximum range is
going to be 175 miles. Oh, this is good
news. Oh, this is good. That 180 mi
means if we can get them before they get
to us, they can't touch us with those
weapons. Ah, that's the flaw. That will
be our strategy. All right, so we know
they're very, very dangerous. However,
and of course, if we take a look at the
other ones, let's see here. The tupula
backfire bees here. Big airplanes, by
the way. Very fast big airplanes.
They've got the kitchen, which is a huge
missile if you've never seen one of
these things before. And let's see here.
The kitchen mod 1. What do you got for
range in the kitchen mod 1? 215. Oh, it
is a happy day. Why is it happy day? So,
one of the things people don't realize
is how huge this area is. If I take off
and I fly in this direction for an hour,
you get that far. That's it. And you can
see just how big this area is. And keep
in mind, our carrier group here is
pretty well equipped. We've got
intruders. We've got F-14s. But even an
F-14 is incredibly limited in how far it
can actually fly. Welcome to naval
operations, by the way. It's one of the
most frustrating parts of naval
operations is how little range your
aircraft actually have. You know, if I
poke around with this real quick, just
as an example, let me see if I can find
one. Here we go. So, if I do heavy
barrier cap, that gets me about an hour
and a half at 150 miles. That's it. An
hour and a half is not a lot of time.
Now, there's a reason why I'm going to
point that out, and that's if I launch
all my aircraft at once, check it out. I
don't have my next set of aircraft ready
for another 3 hours. Which means if I
send all four of these airplanes out
now, that means I will only only only
have aircraft an hour and a half
afterwards actually ready to take to
flight. That's a big problem for us and
it's going to be the biggest limiting
factor of our operations. Many people if
you can you're dealing with aircraft
with basically you know limitless range.
You come here and go okay let's see the
Soviet skis are coming from here so I'm
going to set my operation my barrier
basically over here. You can't do that.
If you do that, you're going to be so
low on fuel by the time you get to your
barrier that you're not going to be able
to do anything once you're there.
Whoops, I accidentally deleted that
entire mission. Let me fix that. All
fixed. I hate it when I do that. All
right, so that's all set. So that means
we can't throw our aircraft everywhere.
It's so tempting to goip make a huge
group and just send them out there. But
the reality is we can't do that
effectively. We're going to run out of
fuel before we can do anything. And if
they send a bunch of Tupalift 95s at us,
so be it. Uh, we know we can get to them
as long as they don't get within a
certain range of us. Speaking of the
Tupalift 95, one of the things we know
about it is the fact that its radar is
fabulous. However, it has a major
limitation. Take a look here. If I go to
RAID and I go to RT, this is our target.
That's our bear. I forget what the name
of this like big chin or something like
that. I always forget what it's called.
Ah, big bulge j. Here it is. We know it
has a range of 260 nautical miles. So
that means if their aircraft never gets
within 260 nautical miles of our carrier
group, we win because they can't
actually touch us. There's another
important point. The Soviets have no
aircraft that can engage our aircraft,
which means we can do some speed chests
and basically pretend to use our queen
for all operations. Our queen, of
course, being our Hawkeye, which we're
going to take advantage of. Okay, that's
the scenario. Let's do it. Let's do it.
So, first things first, I'm going to get
the combat air patrol ready. But I'm
going to do that first by getting my E2
active. So I'm going to go ahead and
pick a target that's about uh 210 mi. I
like about 200 miles for my cap. That
seems to be kind of the sweet spot here.
So I'm going to put that right here.
This is where our Hawkeye is going to
hang out. So what I'm going to do to
this reference point is I'm actually
going to make it so that it hangs out
with the carrier by selecting make
selected ref points relative fixed
bearing. That means if my carrier moves,
my Hawkeye will move with them. See how
that works? Pretty cool, huh? Crl F11.
Uh, we're going to do eyes in the sky.
H. We'll set this to support. We'll make
this an active mission. We're going to
go ahead and reduce one/3 rule to one.
We only need one Hawkeye going at a
time. Let's grab all my Hawkeyes. Toss
them in here. And really important, by
the way, you have to tell them to turn
their radar on when they get there. So,
I'm going to go to MCON. I'm going to go
to MCON. Shut that off. And we're just
going to say active radar. That way,
they basically keeping an eye out. Now,
they are going to be our early warning
platform. They're going to be very,
very, very useful at us because they're
going to give us the capability to
basically um keep an eye on things. Now,
this is where the fun starts. We need to
think about where we're going to put our
F-14s. Keeping our F-14s in the deck is
perfectly fine because again, if we know
something's coming, we can just launch
an intercept mission just like that. As
a matter of fact, I almost always tell
people to keep a couple carriers,
whatever your intercept planes are,
always keep a couple of them just ready
to go. Don't throw them all to a
mission, but we're going to throw
caution into the wind here and go for
it. So, what I'm going to do is
establish two zones here. The first zone
is going to be where my aircraft are
going to patrol. The second zone is
going to be where they're going to be
allowed to attack things. Now, remember
that tupil of 95 has a 260 nautical mile
attack or basically radar range on us.
So, that means anything within here is
in the danger zone. However, I don't
want my aircraft to go out that far. So,
what I'm going to do here is I'm going
to have a little bit of magic. So, I'm
going to press my control D and I'm
going to define my axis of patrol to be
basically, let's call it about 150 mi
away from the carrier itself. It's going
to be about right here. And we're going
to put this axis. Now, you have to be
careful here because we're dealing with
distorted views here. They're going to
be coming out of here. So, if I put my
axis about right here, which
conveniently is right where my E2 is,
150 right there. Bingo. So, what I'm
going to do is I'm going to create my
little axis. And I'm going to try to
keep that axis kind of small. I don't
want this to be a big distance. This is
about 100 nautical miles. That's plenty.
Again, 100 nautical miles is 15 minutes
flying time if you want to kind of think
about it another way. So, this is going
to be where my F-14s are going to hang
out. It's not going to be the limits of
where they can hang out, but it is going
to be the kind of their hang out spot.
Again, be careful with about the
projection here. This is going to give
you a headache. So, what I'm going to do
is the same thing I did before. I'm
going to make them fixed bearing to our
carrier group. Looks good. And then
we're going to get our F-14s going.
F-14's
uh cap. That looks good to me. We'll go
ahead and set this to be patrol a AW,
but I'm going to do something special.
I'm going to define a zone where they
can engage. So, this is where they hang
out, but their engagement zone is going
to be much bigger so that they have the
ability to basically snipe anything
trying to get at our flanks here. So,
I'm going to go ahead and create myself
a little range here. I'm going to do
about 260 mi, which is going to be about
right here, which is going to be about
like that. So, we're going to come down
here 260 mi in that direction. Remember,
this is a kind of that limiting point
here. 260 miles like that. And let's see
here. About 260. Well, that's Greenland,
so we don't have to worry about that so
much. And we'll come down here. I doubt
they're going to be coming from that far
south. We'll pick them up. There we go.
Nice. So, I've got these four points
here, and they're going to basically be
what I call the prosecution zone. I'm
actually going to give myself a little
bit more room. So, anybody stupid enough
to fly into this zone who is detected
automatically gets blasted inside of the
zone. We can make the zone even bigger
if we wanted. There we go. Let's do it.
So, I'm gonna tap F11. I'm gonna go back
to my mission settings. I'll pull this
to the side so you can see the party
here. So, our patrol area is going to be
these two points. Our blow things up
area is going to be those points. Uh-oh.
Let's fix that. Delightful. So, let me
review. Our patrol area is are these two
points here. They're going to basically
be going back and forth between them.
I'm actually going to do repeatable
loop. So, they're going to go back and
forth, back and forth, back and forth.
But their zone where they can launch
missiles is this entire region. So in
the event that they pick up something,
say sneaking over here, they'll
immediately abandon our patrol route and
go take a look and then they'll come
back to the patrol route to protect that
access at all times. Pretty darn cool,
right? So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to reduce this to two aircraft on
station at any time. The reason I'm
reducing that is because the F-14 is got
a lot of missiles and again I need to
keep my stuff back in case I need more
of it. Really, really important. So,
let's go to my F-14 units here. I've got
just about everybody. I can launch my
entire group of F-14s here. So, if I go
like that, that means at any time we're
going to have two F-14s in the air, but
you can see how many of these darn
things we can commit at a time. So, I
actually don't like that. I'm going to
do four at a time. So, that way we have
four in the air. They're allowed to do
this. The repeatable loop, their
prosecution zone is huge. They've got
Awax support. If I need to, I can send
more. I'm not putting all my eggs in one
basket. This is glorious. except we need
to make sure that it stays with the
carrier group. So I'm going to set this
one to be fixed bearing to our carrier
group as well. So it follows my carrier
group around stays in the active axis.
Everything is awesome. I'm going to
press control N to deselect. We've got
this guy right here who's basically
hanging out here. He looks awesome. He's
doing a nice job. We've got my P3s. And
now it's time to talk about ASW.
There is always a chance that one of our
enemy submarines is going to sneak up on
us or we're going to smack into it. So,
we have to make sure we sterilize the
water near our carrier group here. So,
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
create basically a 35 mile little zone
around our carriers. And this is where
we're going to be using our ASW
helicopters to keep a listen in the
water in case anybody's really really
crafty. Now, what I'm going to do for
this one is I'm going to make this a
rotating bearing. So, if my group moves,
the group um size of the box changes,
too. That's important. And what we're
going to do here is we're going to
commit our helicopters and not our fixed
wing um sub anti-ubmarine tools. You
know, the reason I don't want to commit
my fixed wing is because I want them to
be kind of like attack platforms if I
need them. So, I'm going to press
control F11 again. I'm going to do ASW.
We'll do patrol. ASW patrol. Looks good
to me. I'm press okay. Uh mission
already calls. Ah, that's right. I
already did this. ASW near carrier.
There we go. That's what I meant to do.
Good. So, what we're going to do here is
we're going to do ASW near carrier and
we're going to be using our lovely sea
kings for the purposes of this and we're
also going to use our seahawks. We don't
need a lot of these at a time. So, I'm
just going to say basically keep two in
the water at a time and that'll be
plenty. Problem is, we don't have a lot
of these. So, what we're going to do is
we're going to say flight size of one.
Try to keep two in the air at a time.
That's going to be four at a time, which
is a lot. Oh, I don't want to do two.
Okay, we don't have a choice here. We
don't have enough helicopters to
constantly be cycling here. So, I'm
going to say basically keep one of each
in the air at a time. That should be
delightful and keep everybody in the
water. Shut the radar off. They
absolutely can use active sonar, though.
If they want to dip in the water and
take a listen. There's no problem with
that. All right, let us review. So, we
have an ASW mission going over here to
basically take a check out for this.
Again, we're trying to listen to what's
going on inside of here. Uh, see if
there's anything interesting here. We'll
see if the P3s get anybody. We've got
this guy who we'll probably prosecute
with an S3 once we understand what's
going on. We have our Awax plane. We
also have our F-14s who are allowed to
engage anything in this area. Wow. And
you think warfare is simple, man.
Imagine being the guy who has to come up
with all this stuff.
That's work. One of the things you will
notice is nobody is using active radar
except my Awax planes except my
interceptor planes. That's an important
point. If we turn our radar on, we're
letting every Oh my goodness. What the
heck? No way. Look at that. I was so
close. So, um, incredibly, again, this
is just a coincidence, I swear. Um,
we're even better. Look at this. We
estimated his position here, and I his
actual position is a little south of
that. Nice. Well, this guy's about to
have a really bad day. Um, well, this
works really well, actually. Let's grab
all that. We're going to put that little
box right around him like that. We can
actually probably get a pretty confident
box here. Now, the cool thing is we're
actually triangulating his position. Oh,
this is going to be good. All right, P3,
you got the duty today. I'm very tempted
to send an S3 after him, which is they
call the Hoover. It's a pretty funny
airplane. But for now, we know exactly
where he is. Let me show you a really
quick trick. By the way, if you right
click on this real fast, you can go
ahead and say a mark hostile if you want
to say he's already a bad guy. But you
can mark his position so we know what
time we saw him last. So, we can
basically start to work him out if we're
not sure where he is right now. Like
even now, my P3s are basically getting
updated information. We're going to have
to kind of manually control them once we
get a little bit closer. That's okay.
Let's go ahead and move that over here.
So, that was our first sighting. And
we'll get another sighting frame in
about five minutes.
All right, let's get this party started.
Whoa, somebody needs to turn the volume
down.
I don't know how people have high
volumes on anything. That makes me
crazy.
All right, look at this. Look at this.
Oh my goodness. He is so busted.
So busted. There goes my P3.
P3 Orion, go get him, P3, go get him. Go
get him. All right. Uh, meanwhile, this
guy, like I said, I'm guessing
I'm guessing he's an SSN. Maybe he's a
boomer again. Why would Let's do the
range real quick here. Ah, it's so
awkward working on the side of the
globe.
Yeah, if he's a boomer, he's Yeah, he
could go be a boomer. He could be a
boomer. All right, so what we're going
to do here is we're just going to
update. Look at how confident we are
about his position right now. Go, we've
got a contact. So, our Sosus actually
identified him not only as a potential
submarine, but it also was able to
identify exactly what type he is. And
I'm guessing if he's that loud. Oh, it's
a Victor 3. Okay. I thought it'd be a
Victor 1. All right. Cool. So, we're
after him. Nice. Speed up time a little
bit here. There goes our P3 ripping
across Iceland. And you can see
everybody's in position right now. I've
got my Awax. He's sitting there taking a
listen. I've got my F-14s. They're doing
their barrier cap ready to go. Oh, we're
not sure about this guy up here. We
probably should have marked him and
pursued him, but like I said, if I have
time, we'll go send the P3 after him. Uh
oh, we got something.
Oh, that's trouble. Big Bulge A radar. I
have good news, everybody. The Big Bulge
A radar only comes from one aircraft.
Hostile. Nice. All right. Meanwhile,
let's go ahead and do this real quick.
We want to definitely go after this
contact. I just have to keep changing
the size of this. One of the things we
can do, you want to see a really cool
trick? Show you a fun one. Since we know
where he is, we can actually modify this
little attack zone here to be relative
to him. Watch this.
So, if he moves around, the mission
follows him. Is that kind of a All
right. Uh, that looks good to me. So, we
have an incoming aircraft. It's a
reconnaissance. We picked him up at long
range. Probably we picked him up based
on his radar emissions, which is, like I
said, naughty, naughty, naughty. But you
should have left his radar off until he
got a lot closer. But that's okay
because we have F-14s in the game here.
Oh boy, here comes Uh-oh, we got more
trouble. Let's see here. This is a big
ball J. That's definitely an RT. That is
a down B. Who makes that? That would be
a tupalift 22. That's bad news for us.
We've got to keep that away from our
carrier fleet. Meanwhile, our good
friend, the P3 Orion here. I can just
literally order him just to attack and
he's going to lose all his altitude so
he can go say hello. Got to keep a
lookout though. We still are not
confident about the position of that
other submarine there. But that's okay.
Part of the fun. Look at him. He's
coming in.
He's going to skip across the water. Oh,
this is going to be good. This is going
to be good. What he has to do is drop
through below the clouds here. And he's
got to get low enough to drop his
torpedoes. It's actually very difficult
to prosecute a submarine contact
underwater, even from the air. You'll
see what I mean. Now, you are saying,
"Hey, why don't you order your F-14s to
run over here and check this out?" I'll
tell you why. My F-14 right now has 35
minutes worth of fuel, about 206 miles.
Ready to do the math? This target is 333
mi away, which means we can get to here
before we're out of fuel, which would be
basically the end of us. The smarter
strategy would actually be to send him
back to base and send up another group
of F-14s so that they're basically in
position by the time he has to go ahead
and refuel himself. Do you see the trap?
And like I was warning you earlier,
these distances are very large here.
It'll be okay, though. I think we'll be
fine.
All right, it's going to be P3 Orion
action in a few seconds here.
Now, the cool thing with the P3 is got
the near tip Mob Fives, which are much
better. So, what he will do during this
um prosecution, let's go ahead and open
up my 3D view here so you can take a
peek.
Let me grab him real fast. Here he is.
Look how low in the water he is. So,
he's going to drop a bunch of sunabo in
the water. You can see he just sent that
in the water real quick. He's trying to
find this Victor and get a better listen
for him because until he knows exactly
where it is, it's going to be a waste of
his time to just drop a torpedo on his
head. Again, it seems like this is
contradictory. Why doesn't he just fire?
He can't. He has to know where it is
before. Uh-oh.
See what happened?
We weren't as confident about that
position as we thought we were. See?
See? It's not as easy as it looks. All
right, we need to get those other F-14s
airborne. It looks like things are going
to get pretty bad for us pretty quick
here. That tuple of 95 is entering into
our no zone. And you can see that his
maximum range is well within the range
here. Like I said, we don't have enough
fuel in those to do it. So, what I'm
going to do is go back to my carrier and
I'm actually going to order those guys
to get airborne immediately. I'm going
to launch these as a group because
otherwise they're never going to get
there in time in order to do anything.
So, I'm going to launch them as a group
and these guys can come home as soon as
they're ready. Oh, this is going to be
tight. Oh, this is going to be tight.
Meanwhile, we're taking a listen on the
water the best we can. We got that
Victor down there. One of the cool
tricks you can do is drop a torpedo on
his head. If you drop a torpedo N, there
it goes.
Well done. Well done. Go ahead and pause
right there. All right. So, now our
F-14s with a nice full tank of gas just
took off. They will be able to engage
these bombers. As a matter of fact, I
can even order them to engage the
bombers like that. You want to limit
their speed, though, otherwise they're
going to run themselves out of fuel.
It's an F-14, folks. They're not good on
the gas. All right. Now, I am interested
in the Boomer or whoever this is. I'm
guessing it could be 50/50. It could
even be a kilo. That could be kind of
funny. I'm still interested in this
submarine. It's been 2 hours and he's
going pretty slow. So, two hours are
pretty slow. Actually puts him about
where he is now. So, let me show you a
really fun trick here. So, I'm going to
grab uh this waypoint here. I'm actually
going to make it so that Let me come
down here. I'll show you this cool
trick. Uh, let's see here. I actually
don't need this one anymore. Delete. I
don't need Oh, no. I need that one. I'll
delete that one. I'm going to grab this
group. This is kind of a fun trick here.
I'm going to hold down helps if you
select it. If you hold down the shift
key, you can actually move the whole
group. So, what I'm going to do is I'm
actually going to take the mission and
I'm going to move it over here and
basically try to find this guy. And like
I said, they guessed he was about here.
If he's going slow, which would be about
10 knots, he's anywhere in here
basically. So, what I'm going to do is
I'm going to grab this. Like I said, and
we're just going to look for him cuz
like I mean the P3's got nothing else to
do today. War were declared, you know.
All right, we'll go ahead and do this
like this. I doubt he's going to be
outside of the ice, but in the event
that he is, we'll be able to take a look
at him. And one of the things we can do,
too, is we can actually go over here and
we can send him another P3. He's already
on the mission. So, if I launch him,
he's just going to head directly over
there and start taking a look. Like I
said, I don't think we're going to find
anything, but it's worth a shot. All
right, let's go ahead and unpause and
watch the party. So, as we can see,
these guys are blindly looking around
for our carrier group right now. We
have, let's see, this is the RT. We have
very good look at them with our E2. We
can't engage. It's so tempting to order
them to attack, but they're just
miserably out of range. So, it's going
to take us a very long like we just we
just can't do it. We just can't do it.
So, we can't waste time. All right, here
we go. So, here comes these groups.
These guys, on the other hand, have
plenty of fuel. I actually have to slow
them down. If uh we leave them at full
speed here, they're going to run
themselves out of fuel before they get
to the target region. Whoops.
&gt;&gt; Oh, you almost missed the party. There
we go. Come get some tuple of 95s.
Boom. Uh-oh. Go get him. Go get him. Go
get him. Bam. Sliced. Oh, miss. F14's
doing what F14s do best right here.
&gt;&gt; Oo, splattered.
Now, you have to be careful here. Um,
these folks used a lot of fuel for that
little intercept there. And even though
we did deny them what they needed for
the purposes of this mission, they're
now a little low. So, we have to kind of
keep that in mind here. All right, we
should take a quick little idiot check
here and make sure everything makes
sense. Um, that's going fine. We've got
plenty of protection around our carrier
group. We have plenty of aircraft in the
air right now. I'm really kind of
curious, but um, we'll keep flying here.
&gt;&gt; All right, where are the rest of the
Ruskies? There they are. Bingo.
Just like I promised, here comes some
more. I'm guessing we know nothing about
these. Um, can you tell us anything
about them? Uh, backfires. These have
very very big missiles on here. So, it's
the same problem as we had before. Oh my
gosh. They sent the whole regiment after
us. Oh no. Well, this is classic uh good
good military plotting on their part.
You know, count their guns basically
with one aircraft and then send the rest
of the party to come say hello. As long
as they don't get within missile range
of us, I'm not concerned with them. This
is a very long flight for them, so
they're going to be at a bit of a
disadvantage when they do get all the
way out here. So, I'm not as concerned
with that as I could be. Oh gosh, look
at how many there are.
I'm going to mark them manually as
hostile with the H key.
Oh, this is bad. This is bad.
Oh my gosh, they sent the whole regiment
after us. Uh-oh, there's another one. Oh
boy, this is going to get in. Oh,
they're coming right for us. Okay,
really important. Our guys have a pretty
good amount of fuel right now. So, if we
order them to intercept them, if we
order them to intercept them leisurely,
we should be able to pull this off. Uh,
that's enough. Let's see here. That's
548 miles. We can do it. F1. We're just
going to go ahead and go like this. I'm
holding on the shift key and I'm going
to release. I'm going to grab this
group. F1. Hold down the shift key. Drag
a box. Release. And I'm going to order
them to cruise speed. This seems like a
contradiction of the capability of an
F-14, but we don't have a choice because
if they go full blast, they will run out
of fuel before they get in range to
intercept these targets. And what could
happen is they could psych us out. They
could turn around and go back the other
way. It's very obvious where this group
is going. I mean, if you just work it
out mechanically, they're going right
for Iceland. So, we need to find them.
Meanwhile, we're still looking around
for this guy up here. And it does not
surprise me in the slightest that we
can't find him. Like I said, it's been
hours since we saw him, so it's very
unlikely to pick them back up, but in
the chance that we do, we'll be ready
for it. All right, this is where it's
going to get really difficult for us.
Here we go.
All right, F-14s, do what F-14s do best.
That's the beautiful, beautiful thing
about the F-14 is those Phoenix missiles
have so much reach.
Now, the F-14s will fire off their
Phoenix's first and then what they will
do is they will close and they'll start
using everything else. You can see these
two balloons are getting the heck out of
there. Run, run, run, run, run, run,
run. Now, ironically, you'll watch the
Phoenix run out of fuel and go swimming.
That's okay, though. Our F-14s have
they're doing their job beautifully
here. See how the Phoenix's are just
kind of
that kind of thing happens all the time.
Now, this guy is running after something
he can't get. So, um, he's going to run
out of fuel way before he gets in range
of that crow. That's okay, though. Like
I said, we're trying to deny them the
ability to attack us. Of course, now any
military planner knows the fact that Oh,
there must be an American carrier group
out here somewhere because we just got
shot at by a bunch of F-14s. All right.
See how this guy's basically racing
after these? He'll run out of fuel and
have to return back to bait. Yeah, there
it is. Come on back. Come on back. Come
on back. Unassigned back to base. I
don't want him to run out of fuel. A
loss of an F-14 at this point in the
game is awful. So, he's got to head back
home. You can see another group of F-14s
just took off. Like I said, this is
what's so important. You can see the
tupal of 95s. Even though we didn't
destroy them, they were driven off and
they never found our car. Oh, nope.
Sorry, I got excited. I got excited. I
thought we spotted that guy.
I thought we'd get him. All right, let's
expand our patrol zone a little bit
here. Like I said, there's a pretty good
chance we're just never going to see
this guy. But in the chase that we
accidentally do it again, how can you
drop a sonoy through the water through
ice? I'm not going to think about it.
But uh we can see that there's another
tupelift of 95 RT there.
All right, what do we have? We have a
group of uh TU95s are coming back for
another try. Uh this RT is kind of going
that way. That's okay. That's okay. Like
I said, don't worry about it yet. We
just launched. Um do we have any I don't
think we have any fresh F-14s left.
Well, these are about as fresh as they
can get. But again, we're constantly
constantly having to cycle them in and
out. And those two of 95s are way off
base. Oh, they are not. See this group
here? He's coming for us. Ah, shoot.
Here we go again. All right. Um, you
have plenty of fuel.
Okay, really important. Do not use flank
speed. Save your fuel. He's got us 565
miles of fuel in board. And again, you
can take a look at that right here. All
right, intercept going. This is going to
be fun.
Man, the Soviets are sending everything
they have at us. And incredibly, notice
we've only picked up one submarine so
far. How who knows how many more there
are going to be in this scenario. I
guess we'll find out the hard way, so to
speak. All right, there we go. Not good.
Not good. They're coming right for us.
Uh where is this group? Uh you folks
have a tiny bit of fuel. They have a
half an hour's worth of fuel. They're
going to have to get a lot closer before
we can play them. Look at this. Oh, it's
going to be tight. Got them. Nicely
done. Nicely done.
Nicely done. Nicely done. Nicely done.
All right, so we got to keep an eye out.
Oh man, they're they're Soviets are
working us over today. All right, take a
look. Take a look. They're coming at us.
See this group here? How much fuel we
got? We have 48 minutes worth of fuel.
That's uh 283 miles. 283 mi that way.
That's 204 mi. Just too far. We're going
to have to wait until they get closer
before we commit to them. We can start
ordering them to kind of like march in
that direction. But the reality is that
we just don't have the f Yeah, we're
going for it.
And again, cruise speed. Cruise speed.
Take your time, guys. Take your time. Uh
we're going to order we'll be stupid
here and order these guys to attack.
They just not going to have the fuel to
do it, but we'll try it. And again, this
is the classic classic classic classic
problem of any engagement like this is
logistics. How are you going to keep
everybody with plenty of gas? Okay, you
are going after that group. Not anymore.
You're going after that group now
because of otherwise they're going to
run out of fuel. Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope.
Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. So, you can see
how they all started running right back
there. I'm just going to go ahead and
unassign them real quick. One of the
things you could do is you can run up
here and press P, which basically
removes them as targets. So, what
they'll do is they'll drop and they'll
return back to their patrol route. And
of course, our Awax is like, "Bro, why'd
you do that? I I had them all nice and
neatly detected for you." So, you can
see our tupelives are basically trying
to find us, and they still can't find
us. So, they have to keep going back to
Romans here, which again, part of the
fun. Part of the fun. And again, we're
only eight hours into this operation so
far. And we did not find our friend
missing target here. I kind of want to
pull my P3s back because I'm sure
they're going to need some fuel. Look at
this guy. He's coming in on fumes here.
He's also been flying for a really long
time, so he's pretty worn out. All
right, let's pull the P3s back. So, uh,
let's see here. We have the P3s. I
believe that's this operation here.
Let's see. P3 Orion update 2. I'm
actually going to just simply delete
that mission, and I'm going to go ahead
and send him back home. We're just We're
just not going to find them.
It's just It's not going to happen. Uh,
whoever that guy is up there, we're not
going to see him. What we're going to
have to hope here is the P3s get all
nice and refueled and ah, there's more
trouble.
Gosh, look at that. They're trying.
They're trying to come to my next group
of F-14s. Man, this group of F-14s just
had a day. Constantly cycling in and
out, trying to protect us. And then the
Awax. Oh, boy. Everything's okay so far.
We've got something. And here they come
again. And again, their airplanes can
only fly so long, too. So, if they want
to be Oh, there's some more.
All right, let's take a look what we
have here. Let's take a look what we
have. Oh, there's more. H. That's not
looking very good. We're going to mark
them as hostile. And that one is getting
awfully close. Again, these are the old
version of the Awax planes. The newer
ones are much better. Uh, it's so
tempting. That's a puffball radar.
That's a different radar. Who is this?
Uh, those are TU16s. They have to get a
lot closer. So, do not move your F-14s.
See how they turned around? They ran out
of range. Haha. Go back home.
Nice. So at the end of the day, the war
was won not by superior stra Texas and
strategies, but by fuel. And that is one
of the most true things you'll ever see.
We now have 12 hours remaining in our
scenario. We haven't taken a single loss
and everybody's doing fine. It looks
like 20 hours there. Oh boy, it's going
to be close.
Oh boy. Uh-oh. We got something. Here it
come again.
&gt;&gt; Uh I'm not worried about it. He's
heading south. Oh, we could go say hello
though. What is this? That is okay.
Looks good to me. We can go say hi. Why
not
go ahead and order him to cruise speed?
Why not? Why not? We'll try to get a
freebie here at the end. He's going to
have to turn around. Yeah, there he
goes. There he goes. Did you see how he
ran out? Had to turn around. Go run
away. Run away. Run home.
All right, 9 hours. At 8 hours, we'll
call it. We're already a 35m minute
video here. Apologize for that. Oh, here
comes somebody else. We are so out of
range. Don't even bother.
What I'm really disappointed about is we
didn't find more submarines, but welcome
to submarine warfare. All right, let's
call it spacebar. All right, let's see
how we did. So, if we go to my losses
and expenditures, you'll see that we
destroyed three tankers, one Victor, we
got three of their 16s, we got eight of
the backfires, and we got two of their
RTS. So, we had a really good time with
these guys. On this side, we lost a
single F-14 Tomcat, and I can tell you
why. And now, we went through quite a
bit of missiles here. Now, why do we
lose the F-14 Tomcat? We lost the F-14
Tomcat. I I bet you 50 to1 that we ran
out of fuel. I almost guarantee it. As a
matter of fact, if I shut all these off
real quickly here, this is kind of a fun
trick. You can see here that he had to
ditch. He ran out of fuel and went into
the water. Um, like I said, logistics is
the this game. And by making it
challenging for them, it won. All right,
I want to see the other submarines I
miss. Control V. Let's see how we did.
So, I can see here there's an alpha.
Totally missed the alpha. He's doing 12
knots. He's going pretty slow. So that's
probably why I didn't pick him up. And
of course, we have our Delta 2, which
incredibly he didn't go into the ice
cap. I just missed him. He's going very,
very slow and very, very deep. Yeah,
very unlikely to pick him up. It would
have been very challen. You can see he's
just sort of hanging around the tip. So
hopefully this helps you as far as
understanding kind of the logic and the
reasoning. Remember, you can always beat
them if they don't have enough fuel to
get to you. Enjoy.